<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</title>
    <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
    <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
    <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
    <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
    <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1 id="post-3680">104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</h1>
    <p>I am indebted to reader Mike Jennings who, despite being banished to a pompous land, has, in his own words, been “compiling these tentative notes toward a Dobson bibliography”. This seems to me to be a work of magnificent scholarship. Indeed, I cannot begin to imagine how we have all been coping without it.</p>
    <p>Mr Jennings adds “Much work is to be done of course with regard to details such as binding, font, illustration etc but I know my limitations.&nbsp; Such scrutiny I will leave to more qualified Dobsonists with the requisite anoraks and little grease-proof bags of egg sandwiches.”</p>
    <p>The bibliography is ordered according to an arcane system of Mr Jennings' own devising, one the intrinsic beauty of which I hope we can all appreciate. I have taken the liberty of applying a set of Blötzmann Numbers to the pamphlet titles. Though broadly similar to ordinary numbers, they of course harbour a terrifying underlying significance. To paraphrase H P Lovecraft, “the most merciful thing in the world is the inability of the human mind to understand the Blötzmann Numbers”.</p>
    <p>Unless otherwise stated—and it isn't—all titles are out of print.</p>
    <div class="blockparagraphs">
      <div class="left-adjusted">
        <p>1. <em>The Adhesive Properties Of Six Hundred Different Types Of Glue, With Diagrams</em></p>
        <p>2. <em>Dobsonetics</em></p>
        <p>3. <em>A Recantation Of Dobsonetics</em></p>
        <p>4. <em>On The History Of Potato Clocks</em></p>
        <p>5. <em>My Revolutionary New Method Of Moving Sludge Around The Countryside</em></p>
        <p>6. <em>Hedges Hidden From Sight By Steam</em></p>
        <p>7. <em>I, Piano Tuner!</em></p>
        <p>8. <em>“The hedgehog grumbling back to darkness is known by me and loved by me” (The Rod McKuen pamphlet)</em></p>
        <p>9. <em>Why I Shall Bestride This Century Like A Colossus</em></p>
        <p>10. <em>Certain Aspects Of Plastic Baubles And Plastic Sheeting</em></p>
        <p>11. <em>Killer Bees, Ferenc Puskas, And Tomatoes On the Vine</em></p>
        <p>12. <em>How I Coped With A Collapsed Lung During A Thunderstorm</em></p>
        <p>13. <em>Chew, Gnaw, Eel, Teeth, Pap And Slops For Dinner&nbsp;: A Memoir Of Vlasto Pismire</em></p>
        <p>14. <em>Of the fifteen-part critical analysis of The Life and Times of Captain Cake, Volume IV is entitled <em>Welk, Bankhead, Loy&nbsp;: There'll Be A Welcome In The Hillsides</em></em></p>
        <p>15. <em>Worlds Beyond Sense </em></p>
        <p>16. <em>Chucklesome Fripperies From My Notebooks (Lavender Series)</em></p>
        <p>17. <em>Things Beginning with B, My Hatred of Squirrels, &amp; Hedy Lamarr: Scientist</em></p>
        <p>18. <em>How And Why I Built Eight Small Pâpier Maché Brontosauruses</em></p>
        <p>19. <em>How I Invented a Revolutionary New Birdseed</em></p>
        <p>20. <em>The Belle of Amherst &amp; Other Essays Written During An Unprecedented Pea-souper</em></p>
        <p>21. <em>Hideous Execution Practices Of The Blood-Drenched Corsairs</em></p>
        <p>22. <em>Ten Easy Steps To Grooming Your Cormorant</em></p>
        <p>23. <em>My Nightmares About Emily Dickinson</em></p>
        <p>24. <em>Downy, Witched, Dutch Cloud-Heaps of Some Quaintest Tramontane Nephelococcugia of Thought</em></p>
        <p>25. <em>Dobson's Heraldic Dossier</em></p>
        <p>26. <em>Marsh Gas, Badge Man, Prester John &amp; Other Imponderables</em></p>
        <p>27. <em>Tip Top Encyclopaedia Of Tip Top Pop Bands</em></p>
        <p>28. <em>There's Hours Of Fun To Be Had With A Handful Of Pins (Under the pseudonym “Blenkinsop”)</em></p>
        <p>29. <em>Description of &amp; Reverie upon Forty-Four Curlews</em></p>
        <p>30. <em>Some Hurried Notes On Tab Hunter</em></p>
        <p>31. <em>Eight Things You Never Knew About Tuesday Weld</em></p>
        <p>32. <em>Why I Do Not Live In A Grot, Elfin Or Otherwise</em></p>
        <p>33. <em>Copse &amp; Spinney Nomenclature&nbsp;: A Guide For Tiny Tots</em></p>
        <p>34. <em>Six Types Of Snodgrass Implement</em></p>
        <p>35. <em>On The Naming Of Curs As Fido&nbsp;: A Stern Corrective</em></p>
        <p>36. <em>An Alphabetical Guide To What Every Infant Should Know About The Majesty Of Nature</em></p>
        <p>37. <em>How My Annotated List Of Chewed Things Was Lost In A Muddy Canadian River</em></p>
        <p>38. <em>The Bee As Moral Exemplar &amp; Other Insect-Related Parables For Young &amp; Old Alike, Innit</em></p>
        <p>39. <em>Cornflakes, Ready Brek, Special K and Suicide</em></p>
        <p>40. <em>Some Things To Eat In The Bleak Midwinter</em></p>
        <p>41. <em>A Full And Frank Commentary On “The Dark Night Of The Soul”, Wherein Certain Controversial Theories Are Proposed Which Have Led The Author Into Fist-Fights With Sailors Outside Tough Drinking Taverns In The Marseilles Dockyards</em></p>
        <p>42. <em>Little Stories Of Charming People To Warm The Cockles Of Your Heart</em></p>
        <p>43. <em>Six Hundred And Twenty Uncanny Tales, Together With A Pen-Portrait Of Victoria Principal</em></p>
        <p>44. <em>How I Was Attacked By A Flock Of Partridges At A Bus Stop While On My Way To The Potato Club</em></p>
        <p>45. <em>Bilgewater Elegies</em></p>
        <p>46. <em>Netherlands, Holland, Dutch—What's That About?</em></p>
        <p>47. <em>Some Thoughts About Shabby Taverns, Cows And The 1958 Munich Air Disaster Which Wiped Out The Flower Of Post-War English Football, Although Sir Matt Busby Survived The Crash, Praise The Lord</em></p>
        <p>48. <em>An Essay About Bowls, Dishes And Pots</em></p>
        <p>49. <em>A Pamphlet Of Majestic Sweeping Paragraphs</em></p>
        <p>50. <em>Why I Smashed My Copy Of “Thick As A Brick” By Jethro Tull Into Twenty Thousand Pieces With A Geological Hammer And Then Glued It Back Together Again</em></p>
        <p>51. <em>Notes On A Shelf Of Test Tubes Containing The Blood Of Squirrels</em></p>
        <p>52. <em>Observations On Cows From A Great Distance, In The Rain</em></p>
        <p>53. <em>He Who Plucks The Strings Of A Banjo In Wintry, Wintry Weather</em></p>
        <p>54. <em>Ten Things Guaranteed To Drive Marigold Chew Crackers</em></p>
        <p>55. <em>Nomenclature of Paraguayan Bandit Musicians &amp; Soviet Collective Farm Administrators Compared</em></p>
        <p>56. <em>All About My Nocturnal River Trip In The Government Canoe With Captain Vargas, During Which I Was Heavily Sedated</em></p>
        <p>57. <em>My Parents Are Dead, But Christ!, I Adore Hiking</em></p>
        <p>58. <em>The Death Of Stalin Has Led Me By Dense Entangled Byways To The Unshakeable Conviction That A Complete And Thorough Pedagogic System Can Be Based Entirely Upon My Own Pamphlets</em></p>
        <p>59. <em>How I Thwarted My Cacodaemon With A Pointy Stick And Some Bleach</em></p>
        <p>60. <em>God Almighty, Is There Anything More Satisfying Than A Well-Executed Picnic?</em></p>
        <p>61. <em>A Dictionary Of Squirrels (and its appendix Eerie &amp; Macabre Picnic Praxis)</em></p>
        <p>62. <em>A Dictionary Of Guillemot Habitat Maps</em></p>
        <p>63. <em>Wild And Unhinged Fantasies Regarding The Existence Of Wholly Imaginary Registers</em></p>
        <p>64. <em>Why I Can Be Difficult And Self-Centred</em></p>
        <p>65. <em>The Sane Person's Guide To Swearing By The Etruscan Gods</em></p>
        <p>66. <em>Child, Be Thunderstruck As Your Tiny Brain Copes With The Notion That Ice And Water And Steam Are But Different Forms Of The Same Substance!</em></p>
        <p>67. <em>Why Those Let Loose From Mad Cabins Should Immediately Up Sticks And Settle At A Seaside Resort</em></p>
        <p>68. <em>“On terrifying facial expressions”</em></p>
        <p>69. <em>Meetings With Remarkable Owls</em></p>
        <p>70. <em>“On the forest beings”</em></p>
        <p>71. <em>The Unutterable Chaos Caused By Panicking Hens</em></p>
        <p>72. <em>My Mysterious Day Trip To Alaska And What I Did With A Handful Of Pebbles While I Was There</em></p>
        <p>73. <em>How To Knit Knots While Remaining Invisible To Hurrying Brutes</em></p>
        <p>74. <em>Tips For Janitors</em></p>
        <p>75. <em>On the History and Origins of the Fred Jessop Cup</em></p>
        <p>76. <em>A New And Improved Method Of Drying Your Puck With A Towel</em></p>
        <p>77. <em>Some Arresting, Diverting, And Frankly Sensational Factoids Regarding Certain Ponds I Have Had The Pleasure To Take A Turn Around, In All Weathers, Arranged In Alphabetical Order By Pond Name</em></p>
        <p>78. <em>How I Spent Six Months Underground In An Amazing Subterranean Vault Built To House The Blister Lane Gasworks, Together With Mr And Mrs Pan And Their Cat Hudibras78. (considered lost)</em></p>
        <p>79. <em>An Essay Concerning A Bird Perched Upon A Promontory</em></p>
        <p>80. <em>A Disquisition Upon The Various Types Of Cloth From Which Trousers May Be Woven , Together With Some Pictures Of Hume Cronyn</em></p>
        <p>81. <em>How I Conquered My Fear Of Googie Withers, Together With A Few Tips On The Limitless Possibilities For Entertainment Afforded By A Toy Squirrel Made Of Tin</em></p>
        <p>82. <em>Fun With Paraffin!</em></p>
        <p>83. <em>How To Dye A Goat</em></p>
        <p>84. <em>What Planet Does Jeanette Winterson Live On?</em></p>
        <p>85. <em>On The Judicious And Non-Repeating Deployment Of Pancake Hints</em></p>
        <p>86. <em>Thousands Of Unusual And Arresting Facts About Birds</em></p>
        <p>87. <em>The Huddled Shapelessness Of The Dead</em></p>
        <p>88. <em>How I Poked A Pointed Stick Into A Hedge</em></p>
        <p>89. <em>Mawkish Fables Of Punctilio And Rectitude For Tiny Tots</em></p>
        <p>90. <em>Never Pack A Knapsack In A Panic</em></p>
        <p>91. <em>Keeping Cutlery Aligned Tidily In The Cutlery Drawer As An Absolute Imperative If One Aspires To Be Fully Human.</em></p>
        <p>92. <em>The Happy Sprinter&nbsp;: An Eye-Witness Account Of The Training Schedule Of Fictional Athlete Bobnit Tivol Under The Direction Of His Coach, Old Halob</em></p>
        <p>93. <em>Tacky To Goo&nbsp;: Some Frightfully Complicated Thoughts On The Consistency Of Manufactured Pastes</em></p>
        <p>94. <em>Ten Short Essays On Chopping And Cutting And Hacking</em></p>
        <p>95. <em>Some Remarks On The Grotesque Pallor I Encountered This Morning In My Shaving Mirror</em></p>
        <p>96. <em>The Four Horsemen Of The Apocalypse… Or Were They?</em></p>
        <p>97. <em>How I Mislaid My Bus Pass During A Thunderstorm</em></p>
        <p>98. <em>An Anthology Of Disastrous Hiking Mishaps Cobbled Together From A Lifetime Of Ill-Starred Rustic Pursuits</em></p>
        <p>99. <em>Forty Visits To The Post Office</em></p>
        <p>100. <em>Six Lectures On Fruit</em></p>
        <p>101. <em>Where Eagles Dare</em></p>
        <p>102. <em>The&nbsp;Man Who Put The Bee In Beelzebub</em></p>
        <p>103. <em>An Anecdote About Channelling Jungle Demons Wearing A Copper Cone Atop My Head While Hiding In A Cubby Full Of Bats</em></p>
        <p>104. <em>Quite A Few Things I Know About Swans</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
    
  </body>
</html>
