<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>128 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</title>
    <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
    <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
    <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
    <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
    <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1 id="post-5855">128 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</h1>

    <p>It is that time of year when reader Mike Jennings, from his exile in a pompous land, supplies us with an update to his comprehensive Dobson bibliography. A further twenty-four pamphlets have been added to the earlier list, which you can find <a href="2010-01-15-104-pamphlets-out-of-print.xhtml" class="internal" title="104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)">here</a>. Mr Jennings has once again applied those terrifying, and terrifyingly significant, Blötzmann Numbers. Please note that, unless otherwise stated, all the listed titles are currently out of print.</p>
    
    <div class="blockparagraphs">
      <div class="left-adjusted">
      <p>105. <em>Ivan Clank, The Bailiff, O Is He Dead Then?</em></p>
      <p>106. <em>Pancakes&nbsp;: Food Of The Gods?</em></p>
      <p>107. <em>Pancakes&nbsp;: Food Of The Gods</em></p>
      <p>108. <em>My Pancake Ineptitude&nbsp;: A Heart-Rending Confession In Sixteen Bursts Of Hallucinatory Prose.</em></p>
      <p>109. <em>Hell, Its Bells</em></p>
      <p>110. <em>110, My Terrifying Encounter With A Tiny Lethal Phantasmal Poison Frog.</em></p>
      <p>111. <em>Every Lace Has Its Own Boot.</em></p>
      <p>112. <em>Fifty Pages Of Prose About Daytime Naps In Theory And Practice.</em></p>
      <p>113. <em>The Hidden Wealth Of Werewolves.</em></p>
      <p>114. <em>The Mythical Island Where Werewolves Think They Come From.</em></p>
      <p>115. <em>A Pedestrian Memoir Of Hiking Holidays Accompanied By Noted Daubist Rex Daub.</em></p>
      <p>116. <em>A Thousand Breakfasts In Five Hundred Days.</em></p>
      <p>117. <em>Flight-Patterns Of The Common Shrike, With A Tremendously Accurate Diagram by Marigold Chew.</em></p>
      <p>118. <em>This Year's Summer Reading.</em></p>
      <p>119. <em>Chucklesome Fripperies From The Bowels Of Hell.</em></p>
      <p>120. <em>The Poultry Yards Of The Grand Archdukes.</em></p>
      <p>121. <em>Tantalising Paragraphs About The World O’ The Future.</em></p>
      <p>122. <em>The Significance, In My Long-Ago Infancy, Of An Undigested Vole.</em></p>
      <p>123. <em>A Comparative Study Of The Metabolisms Of The Horses Of Three Knights Of The Realm.</em></p>
      <p>124. <em>An Entirely New System Of Moss Drainage, Incorporating Flexible Leather And Lead Pipes, A Plastic Funnel, And A Dobson Jar.</em></p>
      <p>125. <em>A Detailed Account Of How I Provided Emergency Medical Assistance, Despite Having Not A Jot Of Training, To A Flying Squirrel Exhausted And Maimed After Being Pursued And Attacked By A Small Tough-Guy Japanese Macaque Monkey Which Mistook It For A Predatory Bird, With Several Diagrams And An Afterword Quoting A Jethro Tull Song Lyric.</em></p>
      <p>126. <em>Picnics Of Disillusionment.</em></p>
      <p>127. <em>The History, Theory And Practice Of Jiggery-Pokery, From Ancient Times Up To Yesterday Morning, With Practical Tips And Cut Out ‘N’ Keep Cardboard Display Models For Your Mantelpiece.</em></p>
      <p>128. <em>Popular Games And Pastimes Suitable For Those Marooned On Remote Atolls Pending Rescue By A Ship Of Fools.</em></p>
      </div>
    </div>
    
  </body>
</html>
