<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>160 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-10784">160 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</h1>
  <p>And lo! a new year dawns, and bang on schedule reader Mike Jennings provides us with an update on the Dobson canon, listing all those pamphlets which have come to light and been mentioned in dispatches over the past year. As ever, Mr Jennings has applied the obscure yet somehow charming Blötzmann Numbering System for ease of reference. Unless otherwise stated, all pamphlets are out of print.</p>
  <p>Mr Jennings' previous listings can be found at these links: numbers <a href="2010-01-15-104-pamphlets-out-of-print.xhtml" class="internal" title="104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)">1 to 104</a>, <a href="2011-01-14-128-pamphlets-out-of-print.xhtml" class="internal" title="128 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)">105 to 128</a>, <a href="2011-12-29-139-pamphlets-out-of-print.xhtml" class="internal" title="139 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)">129 to 139</a>, and, all by itself, number <a href="2010-01-15-104-pamphlets-out-of-print.xhtml" class="internal" title="140 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)">140</a>.</p>
  
  <div class="blockparagraphs">
      <div class="left-adjusted">
    <p>141. <em>Cyclops With A Broom!</em></p>
    <p>142. <em>A Full Account Of Sawdust Bridge</em></p>
    <p>143. <em>Well, They Both Have Beaks And Feathers, For Christ's Sake!</em></p>
    <p>144. <em>Hints And Tips For Intrepid Explorers In The Polar Wastes</em></p>
    <p>145. <em>And what should they know of potatoes, who only potatoes know?</em></p>
    <p>146. <em>My Boundless Ornithological Ignorance, Together With A Paean Of Praise To Googie Withers</em></p>
    <p>147. <em>A Description Of And Reverie Upon Forty-Four Curlews</em></p>
    <p>148. <em>My Blithering Ignorance Of Vast Swathes Of Ornithology</em></p>
    <p>149. <em>149, When It Comes To Ice Hockey, I Have No Idea What I Am Talking About</em></p>
    <p>150. <em>Let Tourists Go To Switzerland And Italy And Drink Goaty Flavoured Goat's Milk From Improperly Cleaned Mugs And Glasses, And See If I Care!</em></p>
    <p>151. <em>Trudges In Towns</em></p>
    <p>152. <em>It Behoves Me To Write At Some Length On Footnotes, Without Footnotes</em></p>
    <p>153. <em>Lead, Kindly Light, To Bald Men Wearing Specs</em></p>
    <p>154. <em>The Difficulty Of Mastering The Art Of Plinky-Plonky Musical Composition, With A Mezzotint Of Chas ‘n’ Dave</em></p>
    <p>155. <em>Some Unfocussed Thoughts On Birds And Boots</em></p>
    <p>156. <em>Funerary Customs Of Different Types Of Birds, No. 1&nbsp;: The Seagull</em></p>
    <p>157. <em>Thoughts Upon A Rain-soaked Trudge From Homburg To Homburg</em></p>
    <p>158. <em>A Searing, Coruscating Analysis Of Paul Simon's Song “50 Ways To Leave Your Lover”, With Particular Attention Paid To 50 Different Techniques Of Suitcase-Packing, Each Illustrated With Instructive Diagrams With Pointy Arrows And Diagonal Lines</em></p>
    <p>159. <em>A Few Tips On Mountain-Moving, With Shovel And Bucket</em></p>
    <p>160. <em>Things To Shove Through A Funnel Into A Jar</em></p>
  </div>
</div>  
</body>
</html>
