<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Word Of The Day&nbsp;: Clunk</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12835">Word Of The Day&nbsp;: Clunk</h1>
  <p>Word of the day&nbsp;: Clunk.</p>
  <hr/>
  <p>I had hoped, today, to deal with the word <em>clunk</em>, as well as catching up with yesterday's word, <em>boggle</em>, which as you recall had to be postponed while I addressed further matters regarding <em>parp</em>. Alas, I am diverted from my proper course by another letter from Wlad Onanugu. This time he writes:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>Dear Mr Key, I was touched by your thoughtfulness in recommending to me further reading on the knotty problem of <em>parp</em> and <em>toot</em> and <em>hooter</em> and <em>tots</em>, et cetera. Indeed, I was so touched that I am afraid to say I let a few tears run down my cheeks. My weeping and snuffling soon ceased, however, when the significance of those parenthetical words “(out of print)” appended to the recommended title sank in. Sure enough, as I trudged around the bookselling kiosks of the dilapidated seaside resort where I live, I discovered that this Dobson pamphlet was completely unavailable. I was met with blank stares, looks of incredulity, a pitying pat on the head, and, by one particularly apoplectic bookseller, the threat of his slavering, sharp-fanged guard dog.</p>
    <p>Eventually, at a jumble sale at the local self-esteem ‘n’ diversity awareness hub, my rummaging did unearth a pamphlet by Dobson. A glance at the Gestetnered cover, however, revealed that it was devoted to a wholly different topic. The title was <em>Several Potentates Of The Ancient World With Collapsed Lungs &amp; Their Concubines</em> (out of print). I bought it anyway, for tuppence, and took it home hoping that perhaps the pamphleteer might have a passing word to say somewhere about the whole <em>parp toot hooter tots</em> business.</p>
    <p>Arriving home, I snapped open a refreshing can of Squelcho!, plopped myself down in my armchair, and began to read. Shortly thereafter, I was weeping again, but this time from brain-jangling frustration. The pamphlet seemed to me the most utter poppycock, and try as I might I could wring no sense from it whatsoever. If this is a typical example of Dobson's work, I am feeling quite relieved that I did not continue my search for the pamphlet you recommended. Please send me a postal order for tuppence as compensation.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>I am sorry that Mr Onanugu found Dobson's prose intractable. There is a possibility, however, that he may well have stumbled upon a copy of the notorious “rogue” edition of <em>Several Potentates Of The Ancient World With Collapsed Lungs &amp; Their Concubines</em>. This was the one where the original text—a model of shining clarity and Dobsonian <em>oomph</em>—was translated into Hungarian, and from Hungarian into Tagalog, and from Tagalog into Dog Latin, before being translated back into English. It was the work of the mischievous literary prankster Hector Nuisance.</p>
  <p>Tomorrow I hope to crack on with <em>boggle</em>, and <em>clunk</em>, and tomorrow's word of the day, <em>glue</em>.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
