<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lines Written Upon First Listening to Doctor Bogenbroom by Jethro Tull</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Stories from Frank Key's first website." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020–12–07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Lines Written Upon First Listening to <em>Doctor Bogenbroom</em> by Jethro Tull</h1>

  <p class="byline">A poem by Vercingetorix Sepulveda</p>

  <p><em>[…] One of the most striking and gigantic buildings in Pointy Town is the Old Wretched Flophouse. […] In one room are assembled all the different nautical and mathematical instruments; in another all the models of toy brazil nuts of different nations and different eras; in another a complete library connected with every branch of both human and inhuman knowledge. The library's most treasured item is the manuscript of the first draft of Sepulveda's inane <em>Lines Written Upon First Listening To ‘Dr Bogenbroom’ by Jethro Tull.</em> — A Guide to Pointy Town</em></p>

  <div class="blockparagraphs">
    <p>O! Savage &amp; vile &amp; pink &amp; bloated thing!<br />
    Curs'd uncanny globule of despair!<br />
    Monstrous, too! So pale &amp; shuddering!<br />
    Its gleaming talons clawing at my hair!</p>

    <p>Hast this being come t’ announce my doom?<br />
    Its head is like a chaffinch or a gull.<br />
    It has been sent by Doctor Bogenbroom,<br />
    Invoked by minstrel-wizards Jethro Tull.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
