<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Fool's Paradise</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-148">Fool's Paradise</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I must apologise to readers for the distinct lack of recent posts. I have been preoccupied with a number of matters which have left me, bafflingly, bereft of fresh insights into the world o’ Hooting Yard. I expect my pea-sized yet pulsating brain will soon generate further reports from that fool's paradise, but in the meantime readers may like to send in suggestions for areas of investigation.</p>
  <p>Although I have not been writing, I have been reading, and it seems only polite to share with you just a few of the things I have learned during the past couple of weeks.</p>
  <p>One of the Heaven's Gate suicides, the followers of Marshall Herff Applewhite (“Do”) and Bonnie Lu Nettles (“Ti”) who hoped to join a spaceship trailing in the wake of the Hale-Bopp comet in 1997, was the brother of Nichelle Nicholls, who played Lieutenant Uhura in the original <em>Star Trek</em> series.</p>
  <p>Stalin and Trotsky first met each other on Whitechapel Road, on the site which is now occupied by a McDonald's.</p>
  <p>Unlike the guinea pig, which is neither from Guinea nor a pig, the Bath Oliver biscuit is not misleadingly named. It was invented in the town of Bath by Dr William Oliver in the eighteenth century.</p>
  <p>Mao Tse-Tung never brushed his teeth nor took a bath or shower. A factotum was employed to rub him down with hot towels when he became grubby.</p>
  <p>More soon…</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/148">[2007-05-07]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
