<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Imperfectly-Remembered Mitteleuropean Folk Songs In Translation</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-372">Imperfectly-Remembered Mitteleuropean Folk Songs In Translation</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Last week, the Guardian newspaper was giving away a seies of poetry pamphlets. There were selections from T S Eliot, Sylvia Plath, and Philip Larkin, among others, but I was dismayed to note that they did not include Dennis Beerpint.</p>
  <p>The twee versifier has been rather quiet of late, so I was pleased to learn that a new book is in the works. For the last year, apparently, Beerpint has been busy with a project entitled <em>Imperfectly-Remembered Mitteleuropean Folk Songs In Translation</em>. He has collected at least four or five examples, enough for a characteristically slim volume of verse.</p>
  <p>Under cover of darkness, Pansy Cradledew smashed her way into Beerpint's so-called “poetry hut” and managed to steal Gestetnered copies of a couple of the pieces, so we can give readers a sneak preview. The first is called “The Shepherd's Lament”:</p>
  <p><em>There is a shepherd in the hills / There is a [something] green / But black is the crow in the [something] tree / And lightning blasts the sky / The shepherd's lass has golden hair / She [something something] milk / But the crow has flown away, my love / And the ducks have left the lake.</em></p>
  <p>Marvellous. And here is the second one, which seems to be untitled:</p>
  <p><em>As I roamed the bosky verdance / Upon a summer morning / [Something something] gravel pits / And O my love was [something]. / Entwined in posies [something something] / I heard the sound of gunfire / Then [something] over by the cowshed / Upon a summer morning. / Tra la la and fol de rol / The geese are all a-[something] / My pig has got his hat on / And I'll see you in the gloaming.</em></p>
  <p>Fantastic. I expect the editor of the Guardian will be kicking himself that he neglected to include Dennis Beerpint in the series.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/372">[2008-03-21]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
