<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Shoal Flag Summary</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-2624">Shoal Flag Summary</h1>
  <p class="noindent">The blue flag, tatty, at half-mast, indicates to those watching on the shore that a shoal is present just beyond the sandbank a quarter of a mile out. The green flag is displayed when no shoal can be seen from the helicopters.</p>
  <p>It can be difficult to tell blue from green, at certain times of day, even for those without the condition of Daltonism. In milky light, or when a vapour haze descends, the colour of the flag might be blue or green or grey to any but the most acute observer.</p>
  <p>Work has begun on developing more robust dyes for the flags. Some have suggested issuing the watchers on the shore with prismatically-enhanced telescopes. Trained cormorants have also been mentioned in a rogue report, although what role they would play remains sketchy.</p>
  <p>“These are testing times,” said a brigadier with a great personal investment in shoals. He was supported by those who dwell on the sandbank, in cardboard shelters, whose voices are so rarely heard above the din.</p>
  <p>Divers, shellists, and the cadets responsible for the darning of the flags, are due to appear later in the week.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/2624">[2009-07-15]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
