<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3680">104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I am indebted to reader Mike Jennings who, despite being banished to a pompous land, has, in his own words, been “compiling these tentative notes toward a Dobson bibliography”. This seems to me to be a work of magnificent scholarship. Indeed, I cannot begin to imagine how we have all been coping without it.</p>
  <p>Mr Jennings adds “Much work is to be done of course with regard to details such as binding, font, illustration etc but I know my limitations.&nbsp; Such scrutiny I will leave to more qualified Dobsonists with the requisite anoraks and little grease-proof bags of egg sandwiches.”</p>
  <p>The bibliography is ordered according to an arcane system of Mr Jennings’ own devising, one the intrinsic beauty of which I hope we can all appreciate. I have taken the liberty of applying a set of Blötzmann Numbers to the pamphlet titles. Though broadly similar to ordinary numbers, they of course harbour a terrifying underlying significance. To paraphrase H P Lovecraft, “the most merciful thing in the world is the inability of the human mind to understand the Blötzmann Numbers”.</p>
  <p>Unless otherwise stated—and it isn't—all titles are out of print.</p>
  <p>1. The Adhesive Properties Of Six Hundred Different Types Of Glue, With Diagrams</p>
  <p>2. Dobsonetics.</p>
  <p>3. A Recantation Of Dobsonetics.</p>
  <p>4. On The History Of Potato Clocks.</p>
  <p>5. My Revolutionary New Method Of Moving Sludge Around The Countryside.</p>
  <p>6. Hedges Hidden From Sight By Steam.</p>
  <p>7. I, Piano Tuner!</p>
  <p>8. “The hedgehog grumbling back to darkness is known by me and loved by me” (The Rod McKuen pamphlet)</p>
  <p>9. Why I Shall Bestride This Century Like A Colossus.</p>
  <p>10. Certain Aspects Of Plastic Baubles And Plastic Sheeting.</p>
  <p>11. Killer Bees, Ferenc Puskas, And Tomatoes On the Vine.</p>
  <p>12. How I Coped With A Collapsed Lung During A Thunderstorm.</p>
  <p>13. Chew, Gnaw, Eel, Teeth, Pap And Slops For Dinner&nbsp;: A Memoir Of Vlasto Pismire.</p>
  <p>14. <em>Of the fifteen-part critical analysis of The Life and Times of Captain Cake, Volume IV is entitled</em> Welk, Bankhead, Loy&nbsp;: There'll Be A Welcome In The Hillsides.</p>
  <p>15. Worlds Beyond Sense .</p>
  <p>16. Chucklesome Fripperies From My Notebooks (Lavender Series).</p>
  <p>17. Things Beginning with B, My Hatred of Squirrels, &amp; Hedy Lamarr: Scientist.</p>
  <p>18. How And Why I Built Eight Small Pâpier Maché Brontosauruses.</p>
  <p>19. How I Invented a Revolutionary New Birdseed.</p>
  <p>20. The Belle of Amherst &amp; Other Essays Written During An Unprecedented Pea-souper.</p>
  <p>21. Hideous Execution Practices Of The Blood-Drenched Corsairs.</p>
  <p>22. Ten Easy Steps To Grooming Your Cormorant.</p>
  <p>23. My Nightmares About Emily Dickinson.</p>
  <p>24. Downy, Witched, Dutch Cloud-Heaps of Some Quaintest Tramontane Nephelococcugia of Thought.</p>
  <p>25. Dobson's Heraldic Dossier.</p>
  <p>26. Marsh Gas, Badge Man, Prester John &amp; Other Imponderables.</p>
  <p>27. Tip Top Encyclopaedia Of Tip Top Pop Bands.</p>
  <p>28. There's Hours Of Fun To Be Had With A Handful Of Pins (Under the pseudonym “Blenkinsop”).</p>
  <p>29. Description of &amp; Reverie upon Forty-Four Curlews.</p>
  <p>30. Some Hurried Notes On Tab Hunter.</p>
  <p>31. Eight Things You Never Knew About Tuesday Weld.</p>
  <p>32. Why I Do Not Live In A Grot, Elfin Or Otherwise.</p>
  <p>33. Copse &amp; Spinney Nomenclature&nbsp;: A Guide For Tiny Tots.</p>
  <p>34. Six Types Of Snodgrass Implement.</p>
  <p>35. On The Naming Of Curs As Fido&nbsp;: A Stern Corrective.</p>
  <p>36. An Alphabetical Guide To What Every Infant Should Know About The Majesty Of Nature.</p>
  <p>37. How My Annotated List Of Chewed Things Was Lost In A Muddy Canadian River.</p>
  <p>38. The Bee As Moral Exemplar &amp; Other Insect-Related Parables For Young &amp; Old Alike, Innit.</p>
  <p>39. Cornflakes, Ready Brek, Special K and Suicide.</p>
  <p>40. Some Things To Eat In The Bleak Midwinter.</p>
  <p>41. A Full And Frank Commentary On “The Dark Night Of The Soul”, Wherein Certain Controversial Theories Are Proposed Which Have Led The Author Into Fist-Fights With Sailors Outside Tough Drinking Taverns In The Marseilles Dockyards.</p>
  <p>42. Little Stories Of Charming People To Warm The Cockles Of Your Heart.</p>
  <p>43. Six Hundred And Twenty Uncanny Tales, Together With A Pen-Portrait Of Victoria Principal.</p>
  <p>44. How I Was Attacked By A Flock Of Partridges At A Bus Stop While On My Way To The Potato Club.</p>
  <p>45. Bilgewater Elegies.</p>
  <p>46. Netherlands, Holland, Dutch—What's That About?</p>
  <p>47. Some Thoughts About Shabby Taverns, Cows And The 1958 Munich Air Disaster Which Wiped Out The Flower Of Post-War English Football, Although Sir Matt Busby Survived The Crash, Praise The Lord.</p>
  <p>48. An Essay About Bowls, Dishes And Pots.</p>
  <p>49. A Pamphlet Of Majestic Sweeping Paragraphs.</p>
  <p>50. Why I Smashed My Copy Of “Thick As A Brick” By Jethro Tull Into Twenty Thousand Pieces With A Geological Hammer And Then Glued It Back Together Again.</p>
  <p>51. Notes On A Shelf Of Test Tubes Containing The Blood Of Squirrels.</p>
  <p>52. Observations On Cows From A Great Distance, In The Rain.</p>
  <p>53. He Who Plucks The Strings Of A Banjo In Wintry, Wintry Weather.</p>
  <p>54. Ten Things Guaranteed To Drive Marigold Chew Crackers.</p>
  <p>55. Nomenclature of Paraguayan Bandit Musicians &amp; Soviet Collective Farm Administrators Compared.</p>
  <p>56. All About My Nocturnal River Trip In The Government Canoe With Captain Vargas, During Which I Was Heavily Sedated.</p>
  <p>57. My Parents Are Dead, But Christ!, I Adore Hiking.</p>
  <p>58. The Death Of Stalin Has Led Me By Dense Entangled Byways To The Unshakeable Conviction That A Complete And Thorough Pedagogic System Can Be Based Entirely Upon My Own Pamphlets.</p>
  <p>59. How I Thwarted My Cacodaemon With A Pointy Stick And Some Bleach.</p>
  <p>60. God Almighty, Is There Anything More Satisfying Than A Well-Executed Picnic?</p>
  <p>61. A Dictionary Of Squirrels (and its appendix Eerie &amp; Macabre Picnic Praxis).</p>
  <p>62. A Dictionary Of Guillemot Habitat Maps.</p>
  <p>63. Wild And Unhinged Fantasies Regarding The Existence Of Wholly Imaginary Registers.</p>
  <p>64. Why I Can Be Difficult And Self-Centred.</p>
  <p>65. The Sane Person's Guide To Swearing By The Etruscan Gods.</p>
  <p>66. Child, Be Thunderstruck As Your Tiny Brain Copes With The Notion That Ice And Water And Steam Are But Different Forms Of The Same Substance!.</p>
  <p>67. Why Those Let Loose From Mad Cabins Should Immediately Up Sticks And Settle At A Seaside Resort.</p>
  <p>68. “On terrifying facial expressions”.</p>
  <p>69. Meetings With Remarkable Owls.</p>
  <p>70. “On the forest beings”.</p>
  <p>71. The Unutterable Chaos Caused By Panicking Hens.</p>
  <p>72. My Mysterious Day Trip To Alaska And What I Did With A Handful Of Pebbles While I Was There.</p>
  <p>73. How To Knit Knots While Remaining Invisible To Hurrying Brutes.</p>
  <p>74. Tips For Janitors.</p>
  <p>75. On the History and Origins of the Fred Jessop Cup.</p>
  <p>76. A New And Improved Method Of Drying Your Puck With A Towel.</p>
  <p>77. Some Arresting, Diverting, And Frankly Sensational Factoids Regarding Certain Ponds I Have Had The Pleasure To Take A Turn Around, In All Weathers, Arranged In Alphabetical Order By Pond Name.</p>
  <p>78. How I Spent Six Months Underground In An Amazing Subterranean Vault Built To House The Blister Lane Gasworks, Together With Mr And Mrs Pan And Their Cat Hudibras. (considered lost)</p>
  <p>79. An Essay Concerning A Bird Perched Upon A Promontory.</p>
  <p>80. A Disquisition Upon The Various Types Of Cloth From Which Trousers May Be Woven , Together With Some Pictures Of Hume Cronyn.</p>
  <p>81. How I Conquered My Fear Of Googie Withers, Together With A Few Tips On The Limitless Possibilities For Entertainment Afforded By A Toy Squirrel Made Of Tin.</p>
  <p>82. Fun With Paraffin!</p>
  <p>83. How To Dye A Goat.</p>
  <p>84. What Planet Does Jeanette Winterson Live On?</p>
  <p>85. On The Judicious And Non-Repeating Deployment Of Pancake Hints.</p>
  <p>86. Thousands Of Unusual And Arresting Facts About Birds.</p>
  <p>87. The Huddled Shapelessness Of The Dead.</p>
  <p>88. How I Poked A Pointed Stick Into A Hedge.</p>
  <p>89. Mawkish Fables Of Punctilio And Rectitude For Tiny Tots.</p>
  <p>90. Never Pack A Knapsack In A Panic.</p>
  <p>91. Keeping Cutlery Aligned Tidily In The Cutlery Drawer As An Absolute Imperative If One Aspires To Be Fully Human.</p>
  <p>92. The Happy Sprinter&nbsp;: An Eye-Witness Account Of The Training Schedule Of Fictional Athlete Bobnit Tivol Under The Direction Of His Coach, Old Halob.</p>
  <p>93. Tacky To Goo&nbsp;: Some Frightfully Complicated Thoughts On The Consistency Of Manufactured Pastes.</p>
  <p>94. Ten Short Essays On Chopping And Cutting And Hacking.</p>
  <p>95. Some Remarks On The Grotesque Pallor I Encountered This Morning In My Shaving Mirror.</p>
  <p>96. The Four Horsemen Of The Apocalypse… Or Were They?</p>
  <p>97. How I Mislaid My Bus Pass During A Thunderstorm.</p>
  <p>98. An Anthology Of Disastrous Hiking Mishaps Cobbled Together From A Lifetime Of Ill-Starred Rustic Pursuits.</p>
  <p>99. Forty Visits To The Post Office.</p>
  <p>100. Six Lectures On Fruit.</p>
  <p>101. Where Eagles Dare.</p>
  <p>102. The&nbsp;Man Who Put The Bee In Beelzebub.</p>
  <p>103. An Anecdote About Channelling Jungle Demons Wearing A Copper Cone Atop My Head While Hiding In A Cubby Full Of Bats.</p>
  <p>104. Quite A Few Things I Know About Swans.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/3680">[2010-01-15]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
