<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Breaking Swan/Author News</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3715">Breaking Swan/Author News</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Reader Fitzmaurice Trenery has been studying very carefully number one in our series of <strong><em><a href="03688_notable_authors_sitting_on_swans_no_1_raymond_roussel.xhtml" class="internal" title="Notable Authors Sitting On Swans, No. 1&nbsp;: Raymond Roussel">Notable Authors Sitting On Swans</a></em></strong>, and has reached a startling conclusion:</p>
  <p>“Mr Key&nbsp;: Contrary to the description of the photograph, it seems to me that it depicts the wondrous accidental meeting of two benighted creatures, the swan-headed child and the child-headed swan. See how they embrace, each chimera recognising in the other his own misery. The chin of the newly-confident child-headed swan seems to jut in new-found defiance of the world! I'm not sure if a beak can jut, so I shall reserve judgement on the swan-headed child—in any case it seems to me an altogether more ambiguous character. Such a firm grip on the child-headed swan's neck; I infer here the crafty sense in the swan-headed child's tiny bonce that it is the benefactor of this symbiotic relationship. After all, the swan-headed child may be dextrous and bipedal, but it is led around by a pea-sized brain. The child-headed swan, for its part, has a fey, ethereal beauty… but when the head matures into adulthood the neck will be powerless to support it, and what then? What then?”</p>
  <p>Though I would swear by the crumpled cloth of Anaxagrotax's winding-sheet that the snap does indeed show Raymond Roussel as a tiny, so forceful and convincing is Mr Trenery's argument that I am putting the series on hold pending further investigations. I have it in mind to employ for the purpose Agence Goron, the detective agency commissioned by Roussel to find and negotiate with an illustrator to provide the drawings for <em>New Impressions Of Africa</em> (1932).</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/3715">[2010-01-21]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
