<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Z</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5364">Z</h1>
  <p class="noindent">During the last splutters of the Harold Wilson years, I had occasion to read a slim book entitled <em>Zen Buddhism</em>, which consisted simply of a series of what I think are called kōans, anecdotes or parables designed to assist one in striving towards enlightenment. I do not recall any particular kōan in detail, but they all seemed very similar, and tucked away in my memory there is a sort of generic kōan, which goes something like this:</p>
  <p><em>One day Bin-Bag was fishing in a stream, and he caught a pike. He decided to take it to his Master as a gift.</em></p>
  <p><em>“Here, Master, I have brought you a pike,” he said.</em></p>
  <p><em>Bin-Bag's Master took the pike, and then he picked up a stick and bashed his pupil about the head with it.</em></p>
  <p><em>“Ouch!” wailed Bin-Bag. “Why are you hitting me when I have brought you a pike?”</em></p>
  <p><em>The Master pushed Bin-Bag down a slope and resumed his meditation. Bin-Bag rubbed his head and understood he was one step further towards Enlightenment.</em></p>
  <p>I was young and impressionable, but even then I could see that this was complete twaddle. Compared to Zen, Roman Catholicism seemed sensible and coherent. I decided to have no truck with Eastern mysticism in future.</p>
  <p>Years later, however, I was glad I had read the book. I was commissioned to write a potted biography of the Woohoohoodiwoo Woman, and struggled to find an angle from which to approach the subject. Then I realised that the witless kōans provided an ideal model. I was able to scribble dozens of short yarns about the Woohoohoodiwoo Woman, based on my faltering recollection of Zen kōans. The only changes I had to make were to substitute the Zen Master's bashing and shoving with the Woohoohoodiwoo Woman's technique of making haphazard gesticulations at a robin, or at a flock of sparrows, or, in extremis, when faced with a particularly recalcitrant acolyte, wandering woozily off to a nearby kiosk to buy herself a toffee apple.</p>
  <p>And that brings us smartly to the end of our alphabet.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/5364">[2010-10-06]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
