<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Two Tinies</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-7221">Two Tinies</h1>
  <p class="noindent"><em>Dear Mr Key,</em> writes Tim Thurn, <em>Always keen to keep abreast of the latest happenstances in popular culture, last evening I sat me down with a mug of cocoa and a bag of filberts to watch the Mercury Music Prize awards. I was saddened to see that young pop person Tinie Tempah, who was shortlisted, failed to win. Anyway, as I dabbed away my tears, it occurred to me to ask you if Master Tempah is in any way related to that other excellent tiny, Tiny Enid. Please enlighten me.</em></p>
  <p>Dear Tim, In this bewildering world it is critical that we can distinguish one tiny from another. Actually, that isn't strictly true, now I come to think of it. What matters is that we can tell Tiny Enid apart from all other extant tinies.</p>
  <p><strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/category/characters/tiny-enid" class="hootingyard">Tiny Enid</a></strong> is a heroic clubfooted infant, usually dressed in a polka dot frock, much given to brave, even reckless, deeds of derring-do, and of pronounced Fascist sympathies.</p>
  <p>I am not entirely sure who Tinie Tempah is, but I suspect he may be some kind of homunculus, possibly malevolent.</p>
  <p>I hope this clears the matter up to your satisfaction.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/7221">[2011-09-07]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
