<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Tungsten Grebe</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-11276">Tungsten Grebe</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I noticed for sale in a shop window a tungsten grebe. It was a small model grebe fashioned out of tungsten, according to the hand-written tag attached to it by a piece of brown string. The price was illegible. The shop was shut. I passed on down the street.</p>
  <p>A week later, passing the same spot, I glanced at the window display and saw the tungsten grebe was gone. I was not emotionally devastated. I had wanted to find out the price, and depending upon what that was I might have bought the tungsten grebe, and put it on one of my windowsills. But I did not hanker for it. So again I passed on down the street.</p>
  <p>That was seventeen years ago. I cannot get that tungsten grebe out of my head. Its image seems etched on the inside of my eyelids. It is the first thing I think of when I wake up in the morning, the last thing I think of with my head on the pillow as I drift off to sleep at night. In my dreams and daydreams I am standing at the shop window, gazing at the tungsten grebe, trying to decipher the price scribbled so inelegantly on the tag.</p>
  <p>Oh! Tungsten grebe, why do you haunt me so?</p>
  <p>That could be the first line of a song, could it not? It is a pity I have not a musical bone in my body. If I did, I could write the rest of the song, and give it a tune, and sing it, to the accompaniment of strummed banjo and mournful bassoon, and busk outside the site where the shop used to be, on that street I used to pass along, and then I might exorcise the phantom of that gorgeous, gorgeous tungsten grebe.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/11276">[2013-04-18]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
