<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Nonsense</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12514">Nonsense</h1>
  <p class="noindent">In his latest <strong><a href="http://thedabbler.co.uk/2014/03/dabbler-diary-come-as-you-are/" class="external">Dabbler Diary</a></strong>, Brit gives an account of a thrilling event he attended last week:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">To Bristol Grammar School, to hear Frank Key address a Sixth Form Literary Society! You didn't expect that either, did you? It was arranged by the inestimable Roland Clare, editor of &nbsp;<strong><em><a href="http://thedabbler.co.uk/dabbler-editions/by-aerostat-to-hooting-yard-a-frank-key-reader/" class="external">By Aerostat to Hooting Yard</a></em></strong>, who introduced Frank with a comprehensive, lavishly illustrated and frequently hilarious lecture on nonsense. I have to say, though, that for all the amusement afforded by the surrealists, the dada-ists, John Lennon, the Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah band and others, none of the nonsensarians are nearly so funny as Frank Key reading his own material. The only ones who come close are Ivor Cutler and <strong><a href="http://www.kingjamesbibleonline.org/book.php?book=Luke&amp;chapter=3&amp;verse=" class="external">the Bible</a></strong>.</p>
    <p>Frank warmed up his unsuspecting young audience with <strong><a href="http://thedabbler.co.uk/2014/01/little-dagobert-a-tale-from-frank-keys-forthcoming-ebook/" class="external">Little Dagobert</a></strong> and the <strong><a href="12514_nonsense.xhtml" class="internal" title="Binder&nbsp;: The Forty-Nine Symphonies">Binder Symphonies</a></strong>, at which there was much baffled tittering, then battered them mercilessly into submission with <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/feb04.htm#2004-02-05-1" class="hootingyard">How to Think of Things Other Than Juggling</a></strong>, which contains the longest sentence he has ever written. It's quite a thing, listening to a really, really long sentence being read aloud. One goes through a full range of emotions, from hilarity to despair and back again. It's a journey. I could see some of the sixth formers seriously struggling at the midway point. “At least it's not Neil Kinnock,” I wanted to say to them. But, as all things must, the sentence did at last pass, and Frank took pity on his audience and finished with a <strong><a href="12514_nonsense.xhtml" class="internal" title="A Weekend With An Owl God">corker</a></strong>.</p>
    <p>Afterwards I mingled with some of the pupils and assorted guests, including some of Bristol's most thrusting young eccentrics and, quite unexpectedly, the well-known philosopher Julian Baggini. A youthful poet with a curly black moptop analysed Frank's long sentence with admirable seriousness, praising its hypnotic effect. When all had dispersed, Roland and Frank and I stood around and surveyed the buffet leftovers. How deeply moving it was to watch the penniless authors methodically consume the free sandwiches.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">I cannot speak for Roland, but as far as I recall I ate only a single sandwich.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/12514">[2014-03-18]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
