<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Word Of The Day&nbsp;: Mop</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12873">Word Of The Day&nbsp;: Mop</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Word of the day&nbsp;: Mop.</p>
  <p><em>Mop</em> is the technical term for the stuff that grows on top of a Beatle, hence <em>moptop</em>, as in the illustrative phrase “four loveable moptops who conquered the world”. There are other meanings of <em>mop</em>, both as noun and verb, but you know what?, I think I have already told you about them, out of turn, when I was meant to be telling you about the word <em>glue</em>, as well as <em>boggle</em> and <em>clunk</em>, none of which words I was able to give proper attention to because of a flurry of correspondence from pesky reader Wlad Onanugu. See previous <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/category/word-of-the-day" class="hootingyard">Word Of The Day</a></strong> entries to relive the full horror.</p>
  <p>Speaking of Mr Onanugu, he has sent me yet another letter. It arrived while I was writing the above paragraph. Here is what he has to say for himself:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">Dear Mr Key&nbsp;: Why are you telling us about <em>mop</em> when you said you were going to tell us instead about <em>nap</em>? Also, if I am keeping proper track of things, were you not meant to be telling us about <em>pencil</em>? I have a few further questions for you regarding <em>parp</em>—as well as <em>toot</em> and <em>hooter</em> and <em>tots</em>—but I need to marshal my thoughts very carefully before putting pencil to cardboard torn from a packet of breakfast cereal.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">I confess myself utterly befuddled by Mr Onanugu's ability to know what I am writing about before I have posted it here at Hooting Yard. The awful, terrifying thought occurs to me that he might be some sort of phantasmal being whose only existence is inside my skull, an emanation of the brain brought on by god knows what.</p>
  <p>At times like these it can be helpful to slosh out the ears by listening to a few Beatles hits. By the way, if you are not clear what a Beatle is, you will find several references to them elsewhere on Het Internet. One word of warning&nbsp;: if your source of Beatle lore is the pronouncements on the subject by the late Kenneth Williams, please note that “that Beatle who married an Asiatic woman” was <em>not</em>, as Williams has it, Ringo Starr.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/12873">[2014-07-28]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
