<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>A Visit To The Tearmonger</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-13512">A Visit To The Tearmonger</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Pitched past pitch of grief, I wept buckets of tears. Then, on my bakelite wireless set, I heard Chrissie Hynde commanding me to stop my sobbing. I usually find Ms Hynde persuasive, and in spite of the fact that I felt more pangs, I did as she bid. The buckets were both about three-quarters full. I hoisted them, one in each hand, and carried them off across the blasted heath. I hoped to get a good price for my tears from the tearmonger.</p>
  <p>“What have you got for me today?” he asked, when I came toiling up to his kiosk. He was a fat slick duplicitous argumentative mocking gloomy patched-up greasy dribbling bug-eyed ragged vitamin-deficient debauched great bear of a man, all frills and flaps, and I did not warm to him, but he was the only working tearmonger in that part of the glade.</p>
  <p>“Two three-quarter buckets of my own grief-stricken tears,” I said, lifting the buckets on to his counter. He eyed them coldly.</p>
  <p>“What use are they to me?” he snarled, “You are neither an orphan nor a virgin, if memory serves.”</p>
  <p>“Look,” I said, imploring him, “These tears were wrung wildly from pangs of grief. They must be worth something.”</p>
  <p>“I might see my way to giving you a soup,” he said.</p>
  <p>“A soup?” I asked, “What is that in panes, soilings, and pins?”</p>
  <p>I knew very well that a soup was worth only a fraction of a pin, but I hoped, hopelessly, to shame the tearmonger into offering me a little more. He started faffing about with a sachet of gruesome murder victim's widow's tears.</p>
  <p>“See this?” he said, “Tears shed in the actual presence of the lumbering walrus-moustached psychopath Babinsky, as he buried his axe in the head of the poor woman's husband! Now those are tears that fetch a pretty pin,”</p>
  <p>“But I was pitched past pitch of grief!” I protested.</p>
  <p>He dipped his fingers into one of the buckets, then licked them with his unholy tongue, tasting my tears.</p>
  <p>“Not salty enough for true grief,” he said, “And in any case, the buckets are only three-quarters full. In my experience, true grief gives vent to unstoppable tears. I think you were just moping.”</p>
  <p>Under my breath, for the first—and, I hope, last—time in my life, I cursed Chrissie Hynde. I knew it would be pointless to appeal to the tearmonger. I had him down as a jazz-funk fan. There was little I could do but accept his soup. He gave me an eggcupful of minestrone, and I turned away, heading for that place in the past we've been cast out of, oh oh oh oh oh oh.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/13512">[2014-12-03]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
