<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Duggleby, Duggleby</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-13699">Duggleby, Duggleby</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Duggleby, Duggleby, scrim and scraw,<br />
  <em>Fait accompli</em>, monkey's paw.<br />
  Wicker basket, cloister, hearth,<br />
  The benefits of an electric bath.<br />
  Duggleby's lantern, Duggleby's tent,<br />
  Who knows where Van Hooften went?<br />
  Lumbar puncture, lumber yard,<br />
  Janissary, janitor, sentry, guard,<br />
  Cuxhaven diphthongs and candy floss,<br />
  This paint's matt, that paint's gloss.<br />
  One must not forget emulsion<br />
  Nor attraction and repulsion.<br />
  Magnets! Magnets! Hopes and fears<br />
  And a pair of gardening shears.<br />
  He is still wet behind the ears<br />
  This rag will mop up all his tears.<br />
  Duggleby went to Banbury Cross<br />
  But he didn't give a toss.<br />
  Crocus, marigold, fuchsia, egg.<br />
  Two-nil down in the second leg.<br />
  This paint's blue, that paint's pink.<br />
  Duggleby collapsed on the skating rink.<br />
  Van Hooften planned an imperial spree,<br />
  Mumbled threats, scrim and scree.<br />
  Is there a doctor in the house?<br />
  The grunt, the groan, the pang, the grouse,<br />
  The mordant herons on the bank<br />
  Oh the chains, the chains they clank.<br />
  Liposuction, fol de rol,<br />
  Cutting capers, eyeless doll.<br />
  Creeping past the graveyard tombs,<br />
  Distant gunfire, distant booms.<br />
  Squelchy pig boy, guttersnipe,<br />
  Linctus, soup, Gepetto's pipe.<br />
  He has a jug but I have none.<br />
  Ah—he flew too near the sun.<br />
  That is why his jug is cracked.<br />
  Now we are ready for the final act.<br />
  Duggleby darned the curtains well.<br />
  Lilac scattered on tortoiseshell.<br />
  Notwithstanding Cav and Pag<br />
  He kept them in his pippy bag.<br />
  Duggleby, Duggleby, move along,<br />
  That's the end of the Duggleby song.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/13699">[2015-01-19]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
