<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Eye Eye (Again)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-14792">Eye Eye (Again)</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Last week I went for my first appointment at the <strong><a href="14792_eye_eye_again.xhtml" class="internal" title="Eye Eye">Tuesday Injection Clinic</a></strong> (which I think of as the Tuesday Injection Club). I learned a number of things. One, that I would be attending every fortnight, rather than every month, until at least the end of the year. Two, that the entire procedure passes off efficiently and painlessly.</p>
  <p>But the most important lesson I have learned is that I am now armed with a stupendously effective conversational gambit. Let us imagine, just for one wild moment, that one of these days I actually get invited to a swish sophisticated cocktail party where I can <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/?s=%22insouciantly+against+a+mantelpiece%22" class="hootingyard">lean insouciantly against a mantelpiece</a></strong>. Now picture various other guests approaching me to engage in conversation with what they fondly imagine will be impressive anecdotes.</p>
  <p>“Let me tell you about the time I met John F Kennedy”, would say my ex-employer Elkan Allan (were he not late and lamented). Or, “One of my blog posts was picked up by the Huffington Post”, would say my sister <strong><a href="https://dispatchesfromtheformernewworld.com/" class="external">Rita Byrne Tull</a></strong>. Or it might be someone telling me they had climbed Everest, or swum the Channel, or discovered the Fab Four, or any number of thrilling facts.</p>
  <p>And now imagine a moment of silence, while I pause and play that pause for all it's worth, and I then say, “Well, that's very interesting”, and then I declare, in resounding tones, “But every two weeks I have needles injected directly into my eyeballs!”</p>
  <p>I can assure you that the effect is electrifying. I have already tried it out a few times—though sadly not in the context of a swish sophisticated cocktail party—and I can report that jaws drop, eyes boggle, and questions are fired at me. I, of course, retain an air of insouciant calm.</p>
  <p>I tell you what, as medical issues go, this one certainly beats water-on-the-knee or mad cow disease when it comes to mopping the floor with rival anecdotists.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/14792">[2016-08-14]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
