<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>History</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-16130">History</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Further to all the guff I mentioned about Hooting Yard housekeeping last week, there was a little flurry of concern regarding the vanished ResonanceFM podcasts. As a result, I have embarked upon a foolhardy yet I hope rewarding project to upload hundreds of past episodes of <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em> to YouTube.</p>
  <p><em>Et voila!</em> Here is the first fruit of my tireless efforts—the very first show, broadcast all those years ago on 14 April 2004. Malachy O'Neill was the sound engineer.</p>
  <p>I am hoping that further episodes will appear on YouTube on a regular basis, until the whole damned lot are there. This will take time. I am open to offers of help, should there be any devotees out there thrumming their fingers idly on the windowsill and staring into space, in need of some useful unpaid occupation.</p>
  <p><strong>ADDENDUM&nbsp;:</strong> <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFGCKpxXaIE&amp;feature=youtu.be" class="external"><strong>Episode Two</strong></a> (21 April 2004) also added.</p>
  <p><strong>ADDED ADDENDUM</strong> : A link has been added to the sidebar to take you straight to the Hooting Yard home on YouTube. When you get there, press “Play All”, sit back, sluice out yer lug'oles, &amp; listen until the cows etrcetera etcetera …</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/16130">[2017-12-12]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
