<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The Glue In The Palace Was Rarefied; The Putty Was Dreadful</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2003-12-22" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>The Glue In The Palace Was Rarefied; The Putty Was Dreadful</h1>
  <p class="byline">A Play For Two Voices by Dobson</p>
  <div class="blockparagraphs">
    <p>Bim—Look, here is a photograph of Gervase wearing spats.</p>
    <p>Bam—Exactly what colour is that basin?</p>
    <p>Bim—I am standing behind a plinth.</p>
    <p>Bam—Can I have a look at that owl?</p>
    <p>Bim—Do you know how to darn a balaclava?</p>
    <p>Bam—I tell you, it is made of tin!</p>
    <p>Bim—Let me have those bus tickets you are clutching.</p>
    <p>Bam—I shudder when I think…</p>
    <p>Bim—Oh look! A cormorant!</p>
    <p>Bam—I need to get a bandage.</p>
    <p>Bim—That pane of glass gives me the creeps.</p>
    <p>Bam—Must I chew fennel?</p>
    <p>Bim—Lend me a pin.</p>
    <p>Bam—Rotate that thing again while I fetch the trumpets.</p>
    <p>Bim—I thought it was an anagram of Pol Pot.</p>
    <p>Bam—You unblock the drains &amp; I’ll wear a curious hat.</p>
    <p>Bim—At eight o clock I will have to go to the pantry.</p>
    <p>Bam—Did you know that Gerard Manley Hopkins mesmerised a duck?</p>
    <p>Bim—Perhaps Maisie has gone to her boudoir.</p>
    <p>Bam—Is that real dust?</p>
    <p>Bim—The carapace of reason has been submerged in a puddle of confusion.</p>
    <p>Bam—I can hear the dying groans of a police officer.</p>
    <p>Bim—That is a very untidy lid!</p>
    <p>Bam—Please show me how to use the whisk.</p>
    <p>Bim—He used to have two of those cartons, but one was crushed.</p>
    <p>Bam—Leave that cutlery where it belongs.</p>
    <p>Bim—Can I take that delicious pudding back to my chalet?</p>
    <p>Bam—Hand me that chaffinch.</p>
    <p>Bim—Worse things happen at sea.</p>
    <p>Bam—Perhaps it used to be a hydroelectric power station.</p>
    <p>Bim—I had a nightmare about hens.</p>
    <p>Bam—There is a very good biography by Grevel Lindop.</p>
    <p>Bim—There is something sinister about that pot of mustard.</p>
    <p>Bam—Have one of my spangles.</p>
    <p>Bim—Tarry not ‘neath the fat &amp; sparkling stars.</p>
    <p>Bam—I come from haunts of coot &amp; hern.</p>
    <p>Bim—(ecstatically) So do I!</p>
    <p>(Curtain.)</p>
  </div>
  
</body>
</html>
