<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Robertson's Minerva</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2003-12-17" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Robertson's <em>Minerva</em></h1>
  <p>To hell with the Wright Brothers, or Percy Pilcher, or any of those other aviation pioneers being celebrated this week. The man for me is Robertson. In 1804 he published in Vienna a plan for <em>La Minerva, an aerial vessel destined for discoveries, and proposed to all the Academies of Europe, by Robertson, physicist.</em> The <em>Minerva</em> would have a balloon of 150 feet in diameter, made of unbleached silk, coated within and without with india-rubber. For some reason it was imperative that the balloon be manufactured in Lyons. Atop the balloon would gleam a weathercock, “the symbol of watchfulness”, and at the sides would be two purely ornamental wings. Suspended from the balloon would be a ship, containing a small boat (“in which the passengers might take refuge in case of necessity, in the event of the larger vessel falling on the sea in a disabled state”); a store for water, wine and other provisions; silk ladders; closets; the pilot's room; an observatory containing compasses “and other [unspecified] scientific instruments”; a room “fitted up for recreations, walking, and gymnastics”; a kitchen, medicine room, theatre and music room; a study; and lastly, tents for the “air-marines”. Tragically, the <em><a class="internal-image" href="../Images/2003-12-minerva.jpg">Minerva</a></em> was never built.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
