<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Online Learning With Hooting Yard</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-12-29" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Online Learning With Hooting Yard</h1>
  <p>Here is the first tranche of a new series in which we will attempt to provide a thorough and valuable learning experience for all our readers. Perhaps you failed to pay attention when you were at your community hub? [Note: you may recall it being called a “school”. That was then…] Online Learning With Hooting Yard can help you catch up with all the vital information that passed you by.</p>
  <p>Each lesson—specially devised by a team headed by Fatima Gilliblat—consists of two questions, to which model answers are given. They have been carefully researched and are guaranteed correct. No longer need you be stuck for an answer when accosted in the street, or buttonholed at a fashionable cocktail party in a rotating restaurant at the top of a high building. Memorise the answers, or, if your memory is a sorry and puny thing, write them down on the cuff of your shirt or blouse on the same side as you wear your wristwatch. You will soon be sparkling in company, and everyone will be envious of your cleverness.</p>
  <p>Lesson One</p>
  <p>Q—Are crocodiles frightened of otters?</p>
  <p>A—Yes they are. If crocodiles roam into a stretch of river where otters are prevalent, they will hasten away, for crocodiles fear otters.</p>
  <p>Q—How did a priest in Bolivia early in the last century supplement his income?</p>
  <p>A—He divided his graveyard into three sections—Heaven, Purgatory, and Hell—and charged for burials accordingly.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
