<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Build Your Own Plasticine Model of Dealey Plaza</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-11-22" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Build Your Own Plasticine Model of Dealey Plaza</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Continuing with the JFK theme, here is a craft project devised by Fatima Gilliblat:</p>
  <p>First, get some plasticine. Before opening the package, wash your hands thoroughly in warm water. If your hands are really grubby, for instance if you have been doing grubby things, use swarfega. I am making no moral judgement on your indulgence in grubby practices, merely noting that warm water by itself will not suffice to cleanse the pollution from your fleshly extremities. As for your immortal soul, far be it from me to pronounce upon the peril in which it is placed by your unconscionable grubbiness. After all, I am no saint. That being said, I abhor the kind of grubbiness to which you may have fallen prey, albeit that I do not make it my business to go about declaring my own rectitude, as that would be boastful. Once or twice, maybe, I have dipped my toe in the slimy puddle of moral turpitude, and that was quite enough for me.</p>
  <p>Now to the second stage of this exciting project. With your prayer book or catechism resting upon the work surface in easy reach, open the packet of plasticine. Intone three Hail Marys, break off some plasticine, and begin to mould it into the shape of the grassy knoll. It is advisable at this point to go and fetch your rosary beads.</p>
  <p>Before completing the grassy knoll part of the model, open up that tin of swarfega and clean your hands again. You can never be too careful.</p>
  <p>When you have made a passable model of the grassy knoll, take some matchsticks and press them into the plasticine to represent the white picket fence. Say a novena. Now grab another chunk of plasticine and fashion a miniature version of the Texas Schoolbook Depository. Remember to tweak a tiny tubular shape poking out of the sixth floor window to show assassin Lee Harvey Oswald's mail order Mannlicher Carcano rifle with which he shot the Potus, allegedly.</p>
  <p>A pink blob of plasticine will do for Jackie Kennedy's pillbox hat.</p>
  <p>The underpass over the Stemmons Freeway is quite tricky to make out of plasticine, so you may wish to use a few bits of cardboard. Your local supermarket probably has packaging and boxes piled up somewhere for customers to take away. Go and get sufficient boxes to cut enough cardboard for the underpass, and while you are out and about, drop into your nearest Catholic church and make your confession to Father O'Flaherty. If your priest has a different name, don't worry. If you don't have a priest, do worry, for you will burn in hell, however skilfully you manage to complete your plasticine and cardboard model of Dealey Plaza.</p>
  <p>When you return home, your soul now washed clean of all disgusting vileness, put the finishing touches to your model by curving a rectangle of plasticine into the shape of the pergola from where the Zapruder footage was shot. If you have exhausted your tin of swarfega, plunge your hands into a basin of piping hot soapy water while contemplating the martyrdom of your favourite saint.</p>
  <p>Place your toy Dealey Plaza in a suitable location, for example, the mantelpiece, display cabinet, or kitchen table. Next time Father O'Flaherty visits, ask him to sprinkle some holy water on it. He will be happy to oblige, I am sure.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/nov04.htm#2004-11-22-2">[2004-11-22]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
