<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Four Soup Recipes</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-09-12" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Four Soup Recipes</h1>
  <p class="noindent">These four soup recipes are taken from <em>The Si-Fan Book Of Fun With Soup</em> by Fu Man-chu, no relation to Sax Rohmer's fictional villain.</p>
  <p><strong><em>Soup for the morning.</em></strong> Hot, clear broth flavoured with wheat-husks, celery, saffron and minnows.</p>
  <p><strong><em>Soup for lunchtime.</em></strong> A thick and lumpy soup, containing curd, feverfew, mocha, whelks, string, gin and blood oranges.</p>
  <p><strong><em>Teatime soup.</em></strong> Mostly water, into which are thrown delphiniums, muffins, tunny, pike and hake, lights, parsley, cocoa and gristle.</p>
  <p><strong><em>Soup at twilight.</em></strong> Make a thick paste of mugwort, lima bean pulp, ground crocuses and mustard. Dilute with boiling duckpond water and leave to stand for a week, uncovered, out of doors. Scrape off the top layer of scurf and use as a filling for tiny oat pancake rolls. Toss these into the soup, along with mayonnaise, rusks, bloaters, pemmican, tulip-roots, vinegar, an ox-head, krill, crushed bones, whey, turmeric, marmalade, groist, badgers' brains and spinach. Garnish with brazil nuts and strips of gelatine.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
