<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Crestfallen Dan</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-01-27" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Crestfallen Dan</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Crestfallen Dan lived in a hut on the edge of the inaccurately-named Unending Marshes. He had a metal plate in his skull, following a childhood picnic-hamper incident. He was mildly lantern-jawed. Whenever he wrote about being lantern-jawed, or about lanterns, Crestfallen Dan invariably used the archaic spelling, <em>viz.</em> “lanthorn”. He often had occasion to write the word because, shunning human company, he lived alone and ran a lighting-fixture advice service by post. He spent a fortune on postage stamps! Crestfallen Dan did not possess a telephone, but if he had done so it would have availed him not, because there was no telephone pole within miles upon miles of his nondescript hut. He had only a handful of correspondents, or customers, but they were exceedingly loyal to him, for Crestfallen Dan knew more about lighting-fixtures than anyone else, ever, alive or dead, and his advice was always couched in clear and simple language that even a splinterbrain could understand. Crestfallen Dan himself lit his hut with the aid of a single Tilly lamp. He was that kind of man.</p>
  <p class="editor">Source : <em>Worlds Beyond Sense</em> by Dobson (out of print)</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/jan04.htm#2004-01-27-2">[2004-01-27]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
