<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Film Focus</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-03-03" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Film Focus</h1>
  <div class="blockparagraphs">
  <p class="noindent">The imminent UK release (on Pansy Cradledew's birthday!) of überCatholic Melvin Gibson's blood-drenched and preposterous <em><a class="external" href="http://slate.msn.com/id/2096323/">The Passion of the Christ</a></em> prompts us to recommend some films you might prefer to see.</p>
  <p><em>The Stepford Hives</em> Ecological horror about a swarm of brainwashed bees.</p>
  <p><em>Where B-Girls Dare</em> A crack squad of floozies storms a Nazi fortress.</p>
  <p><em>Apocalypse Cow</em> Drug-crazed American soldiers go crazy in a barnyard.</p>
  <p><em>The Wild Bench</em> Action picture set in a municipal park.</p>
  <p><em>Quatermass And The Git</em> Sci-fi classic in which a sordid old man is found buried in a London Underground station.</p>
  <p><em>The Hound of Music</em> Austrian singing dog drama.</p>
  <p><em>Close Encounters of the Bird Kind</em> Richard Dreyfuss as a scruffy, obsessed ornithologist.</p>
  <p><em>Bring Me The Shed of Alfredo Garcia</em>V iolent revenge thriller set in a garden centre.</p>
  <p>And not forgetting:</p>
  <p><em>Waterpostman</em> Director's cut of two Kevin Costner triumphs. A man swims through a post-nuclear nightmare delivering soaking wet letters.</p>
  <p class="editor">This paragraph is an <em>hommage à</em> Max Décharné. Max's book <em>Hardboiled Hollywood : The Origins of the Great Crime Films</em> (No Exit Press) is available in all good bookshops, and from <a class="external" href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/184243070X/qid=1078250106/sr=1-1/ref=sr_1_10_1/026-9862265-4356412">that online one named after a big river</a>.</p>
  </div>
<p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/mar04.htm#2004-03-03-1">[2004-03-03]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
