<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Science</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-01-20" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Science</h1>
  <p>A while ago I found a truly majestic publication in a secondhand bookshop on Charing Cross Road. It's a 76 page A6 booklet, spineless, with a yellow card cover, entitled <em>Further Science—Book 20</em>, written and published by Norman Davies in 2001. Infuriatingly, there is neither a jot nor tittle of further information—no address, contact details, or anything. The contents include topics such as: Hedge Auras; Dragonflies; World Monkeys; Near Death; World Flag Psychology; and National Bill Hooks. If anyone knows anything more about Norman Davies, or how I could obtain <em>Further Science</em> Books 1 to 19 (and 21 onwards?) please contact me immediately!</p>
  <p>As I have no way of asking Mr Davies' permission to reproduce his work, I pondered not doing so; but my resolve was broken. Here, then, is an extract. It is entitled “Ancestral Birds” (<em>sic</em> throughout):</p>
  <blockquote>
    <ol>
      <li>That Australian Birds represent Ancestral European species.</li>
      <li>And insight into their psychological differences, would reveal how species psychologies evolve.—A new science—Psychological Evolution.</li>
      <li>The Takahe—which equals the coot—once could not fly.</li>
      <li>Pukako equals the moorhen—was once larger.</li>
      <li>The Waka equals the corncrake—once flightless / nocturnal in forest / ex predator / burrow.</li>
      <li>Kiwi equal the starling / always was spotted / solid boned / primitive / large eggs / great smell / top bill nostrils / forest nocturnal / flightless / no tail.</li>
      <li>The spotted shag equals the cormorant.</li>
      <li>Black swan equals the white mute swan—once black and rough / intruder aggressive / platform nest.</li>
      <li>Brolgas equal cranes—once danced / ground nesting / no nest / trumpets.</li>
      <li>Tui equals the house sparrow—once honey eating / musical mimic.</li>
      <li>Kookaburra equals the kingfisher—once larger / pro snakes slippery / once laughing / suburb tame.</li>
      <li>Peewit equals the magpie—once high tree quiet cry / pairs / Winter flock.</li>
      <li>Apostle bird equals the bunting—tree hops small flocks etc.</li>
      <li>And so on for Bird of Paradise / crows—bower bird / thrushes—Butcher Bird / shrike—Rock Pigeon / doves—Frogmouth / nightjar—Cockatoo / parrot—Mutton Bird / petrels—Kea Parrot / crossbills and finches—Lyre bird / pheasant—Kagu / bitterns—Mallee Fowl / partridge—Scrub Bird / warblers—Cassowary / domestic hen etc.</li>
    </ol>
  </blockquote>
  
</body>
</html>
