<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Rant</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-04-05" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Rant</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Perhaps the novelist Julian Barnes is to blame, since his novel <em>Flaubert's Parrot</em> was a huge bestseller. I haven't read it myself, so offer no opinion. What bothers me is that the title of the book has seemingly cast a spell over the entire British publishing industry. That format—<em>[historical figure]'s + [everyday or whimsical object]</em>—now infests the shelves of our bookshops to the point of teeth-gnashing despair. At first, only fiction caught the bug—<em>Hemingway's Chair</em> and <em>Lenin's Trousers</em> spring to mind—but once non-fiction contracted the virus, the plague was unstoppable. Yesterday, browsing desultorily in Waterstone's, I came upon the following within about five minutes: <em>Pandora's Breeches</em>; <em>Wittgenstein's Poker</em>; <em>Rembrandt's Whore; Dorothy Parker's Elbow</em>; and <em>Schopenhauer's Porcupines</em>, not to mention <em>Schopenhauer's Telescope</em>. I could go on, but I already feel quite ill.</p>
  <p>A significant side-effect of this wretchedness is that in some cases one suspects the very content of the book has been twisted to fit the title. Giles Milton's <em>Nathaniel's Nutmeg</em> was ostensibly a history of the early spice trade, a subject of interest in itself. But because of the imperatives of the title, the author buoys up a single character—Captain Nathaniel Courthope—and gives him an importance in the narrative that is simply unjustifiable. I have no doubt that Giles Milton <em>knows</em> this, and knows that it damages his book, but bows to what is required by theBritish publishing industry—a contemptible, money-grubbing, market-driven playground for the alumni of Oxford and Cambridge universities, rife with nepotism. Even the witless goons who run it must surely learn when enough is enough?</p>
  <p>This is one reason, of course, why Hooting Yard appears on the web. Renamed <em>Sir Matt Busby's Cistern</em> or <em>Spinoza's Rhubarb</em>, it would probably attract a five-figure advance … but only if the content were tailored to meet the requirements of the intellectually bankrupt poltroons who sign the cheques. I prefer to plough my lonely furrow. End of rant.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/apr04.htm#2004-04-05-1">[2004-04-05]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
