<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>“You know what a pleasure it is…”</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-02-03" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="quote">
  <h1>Quote of the Day</h1>
  <p class="noindent">“You know what a pleasure it is to have a pretty pet Dog. I do not mean those little lap dogs. They are of no use, and when I see a little girl with a lap dog, I always say, “Well, well, that little girl is, and always will be foolish.” And why do I say so? Because I know she will neglect her books and her other duties just to play with Flora. If you want a good pet dog—get a large one. The best dogs are the St. Bernard or Newfoundland. They are very large. They are jet black. They are very intelligent, and after you have had them for some time, you can make them perform many tricks for the amusement of your little friends. The St. Bernard Dog is a native of the Alps. He is named after a convent on Mount St. Bernard in Switzerland. The convent is 8,038 feet above the foot of the mountain. It is a Benedictine monastery and hospital, and is the highest inhabited spot in Europe. Travellers passing the Alps into Italy have to pass over the mountains. They are covered with snow and very dangerous. The good monks go out with their dogs and if they find any traveller benighted or frozen in the snow, they lend him succour and take him to the monastery. The dogs are very strong and can carry a man. They are all good water dogs, and if you were to fall in the water, one of them could hold you up until rescued by your friends. Growler is waiting for his breakfast. He is Eva's pet.” — Uncle Philip, <em>The Girl's Cabinet of Instructive &amp; Moral Stories</em> (1856)</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/feb04.htm#2004-02-03">[2004-02-03]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
