<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Spooky Boswell Coincidence</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-06-24" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Spooky Boswell Coincidence</h1>
  <p>I received a letter yesterday from reader Max Décharné, in which he mentioned, apropos of nothing at all, that he is currently reading James Boswell's <em>London Journal 1762-1763</em>. Indeed, Max was kind enough to include a splendid quotation from what he calls “a constant joy. I hadn't looked at it for maybe fifteen years, and it's as good as Pepys' <em>Diary</em> for that sense of what it was like to live in London back when it was more of a small town. I thought you might like this description of preparations for theatre-going from 15th December 1762: <em>At five I filled my pockets with gingerbread and apples (quite the method), put on my old clothes and laced hat, laid by my watch, purse, and pocket-book, and with an oaken stick in my hand sallied to the pit. I was too soon there. So I went into a low inn, sat down amongst a parcel of arrant blackguards, and drank some beer.</em>”</p>
  <p>Later on in the day, desultorily watchiug television, my attention was caught by a new (to me, at any rate) L'Oreal advert. Readers should know that I still harbour ambitions to become the new “face” of that confounded company (see 6 and 17 May) and will not stint in my efforts. Anyway, that aside, I was struck by the magic ingredient of whatever ridiculous new product was being pushed. This latest L'Oreal hair-goo<span class="asterisk">*</span> apparently contains something called <em>Boswelox</em>. (How typical that they misspell our hero's name, with just one <em>L</em>.) Suppressing my resentment at not (yet) having been granted a multimillion dollar contract, I shall be writing to L'Oreal to applaud their use of eighteenth century literary figures as inspiration for product-naming, and make some further suggestions: <em>Dr Johnsonite</em>, <em>ColleyCibberox</em>, <em>Smollett</em>, <em>DelarivièreManleyox</em>, and <em>Walpolette</em> spring to mind.</p>
  <p class="footnote"><span class="mark">* NOTE&nbsp;:</span> Poppy Nisbet has written in—promptly, it must be said (25 June)—to correct what appears to be an error:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>Dear Hooting Yard&nbsp;: I read your L'Oreal's secret ingredient/18th-century literary figures theory. Unfortunately, <em>Boswelox</em> is not an ingredient in L'Oreal's ‘hair goo’, but the key element of their anti-ageing 'Wrinkle De-Crease With <em>Boswelox</em>', a skin cream. My own sources say that L'Oreal plan to use 17th-century inspiration for their hair products, including <em>JohnDrydenite</em>, <em>Cromwellox</em> and, of course, <em>Regicide</em>.</p>
    <p>Yours knowledgeably, Poppy Nisbet</p>
  </blockquote>
  
</body>
</html>
