<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>That “Dobson” Photograph</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-04-05" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>That “Dobson” Photograph</h1>
  <p class="noindent">On Thursday 1st April we published an anonymously-sent photograph of a man and a child, one of whom was purportedly Dobson. I suggested this was probably an April Fool's Day prank. Now, reader Peter C Ross writes:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">Sir&nbsp;: Having known Dobson for more years than I care to mention I am certain that the photograph you have received is of Dobson as a child and that the figure behind is his father (also known as Dobson). The identification is further confirmed by the corner of a Crittal window visible in the background. It is a well known fact that Dobson spent his formative years behind such a window.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">This is clearly nonsense. In his breathtaking—if indigestible—<em>List Of Every Single Person Dobson Met In His Life</em>, Jasper Poxhaven never mentions anyone named Ross, let alone Peter of that ilk, with or without a C. Our correspondent is either the shadowy figure who sent the photograph, or a maniac, or possibly both. There is a third possibility, but it is so terrifying in its implications that I will have to go and bathe my head in Dr Fleming's Brain Soothing Infusion &amp; Nerve Tonic (for external use only) before addressing it…</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/apr04.htm#2004-04-05-4">[2004-04-05]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
