<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Hubs and Tranches</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-12-08" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Hubs and Tranches</h1>
  <p>I wrote some months ago that where I live—when I am not on duty in the Haemoglobin Towers annexe, of course—has been designated as a hub. I am not entirely sure who has so designated it, although doubtless it was some “New” Labour apparatchik. In fact it would be more correct to dub it a forthcoming hub, or a hub-to-be, for of course its hubdom is not yet complete. I do not know how many tranches are involved in the area's transformation from whatever it is now to being a true hub, and this bothers me.</p>
  <p>I want to know about the tranches, pretty desperately. Something cannot become a hub in Blair's brave new land without each successive tranche being signed off, or so I gather.</p>
  <p>In fact I want some tranches of my own. Hooting Yard deserves, I think, to go from one tranche to another. So let this be the First Tranche, I declare.</p>
  <p>It also strikes me that <em>Hubs And Tranches</em> sounds like an album title, perhaps one made by a fey singer-songwriter. If, dear reader, you are that fey singer-songwriter, you are welcome to use it.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
