<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Istvan &amp; Zoltan</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-02-28" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Istvan &amp; Zoltan</h1>
  <p>“Crikey!” exclaimed Istvan, “What in the name of heaven is that?”</p>
  <p>His twin brother Zoltan looked up from the book he was reading. “Istvan, calm down,” he drawled, “You know I hate to be interrupted in my reading, especially when the book in my hands is the <em>Journals</em> of <a class="external" href="http://www.gerardmanleyhopkins.org/index.html">Gerard Manley Hopkins</a> &amp; I have just got to the entry for that most exciting day, 27th April 1871, when the poet, quote, mesmerised a duck with chalk lines drawn from her beak sometimes level &amp; sometimes forwards on a black table, unquote.”</p>
  <p>“How on earth can you immerse yourself in the prose of a Victorian Jesuit,” screeched Istvan, “When I am about to be waylaid by a preposterously complicated mechanical contraption somehow imbued with almost human malevolence?”</p>
  <p>Zoltan yawned. “I have long been fascinated by Hopkins,” he averred, “Incidentally, were you aware, o twin, that the nuns whose drowning was commemorated in that majestic poem <em><a class="external" href="http://www.bartleby.com/122/4.html">The Wreck of the Deutschland</a></em> lie buried in Saint Patrick's Roman Catholic Cemetery in Leytonstone, east London, &amp; that I have placed flowers on the grave? Peonies, I recall, or mayhap they were pinks, or pansies.”</p>
  <p>“Eek!” yelled Istvan. Zoltan cast his eyes in the direction indicated by the frantic gesticulations his twin brother made to complement his frightful ‘eek’.</p>
  <p>“Golly!” gasped Zoltan, his eyes popping. For trundling at inhuman speed towards Istvan was a monstrous steam-powered engine, bulky &amp; strange, built of tungsten, titanium &amp; tin, &amp; seemingly alive with a perplexing array of hooters, levers, flaps, nozzles, chains, bleepers, consoles, klaxons, chocks, struts, decoy shields, Coddington lenses, batteries, prongs, bits of corrugated cardboard &amp; Mackenzie beams. It was the Indigestion Machine!</p>
  
</body>
</html>
