<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Swiss Family Robinson</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-12-04" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>The Swiss Family Robinson</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Have you ever met someone from Switzerland named Robinson? Someone named Robinson, from Switzerland, who has been shipwrecked? I have. I was sitting in a coffee bar in Old Grimy Town up north, and as I sipped my cocoa and leafed through yesterday's copy of <em>The Old Grimy Town Gazette</em>, in walked Fathead Robinson and Poopy Robinson and their children Ned, Gristle and Sawdust. They sat at my table.</p>
  <p>“We are the Swiss Family Robinson,” said Fathead. “We are from Switzerland, and we were shipwrecked.”</p>
  <p>I looked at them one by one, trying to see evidence of their ordeal.</p>
  <p>“When was this?” I asked.</p>
  <p>“Years ago,” said Poopy, “We were rescued by a big boat of birds.”</p>
  <p>“A boat of birds?” I asked.</p>
  <p>“Yes,” said Ned, “It was a big boat and there were no humans aboard it, only birds. Starlings and chaffinches and buntings and wagtails and corncrakes and linnets and sparrows and swans.”</p>
  <p>“Was a swan the captain?” I asked.</p>
  <p>“Yes,” said Ned, “How did you guess?”</p>
  <p>I fixed him with my one working eye, sipped the dregs of my cocoa, and stood up. Saying nothing, I swept out of the coffee bar, and went straight home to write in my diary. <em>Today I met the Swiss Family Robinson</em>, I wrote, and then I put down my pencil and became lachrymose, thinking about swans imperilled on the high seas, and my parrot, Lascelles, who yearned for Colombia, where he was born, on a bright summer day so many years ago.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/dec04.htm#2004-12-04-3">[2004-12-04]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
