<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Beerpint Scandal</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-03-13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>The Beerpint Scandal</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Seldom referred to these days, the so-called Beerpint Scandal<span class="asterisk">*</span> of 1977 is worth revisiting. Dennis Beerpint (brother of the poet Gervase) tells the story himself, in this previously unpublished memorandum, hurriedly scribbled on a piece of blotting paper and deposited in a credenza located in the boiler cupboard of the Museum of Moral Turpitude in Lewdbag.</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">Hundreds of outraged citizens threw pebbles at me in the streets after I announced, in the pages of the <em>Tungsten Railings Digest</em>, that I had never been to the theatre, that wild horses, nor indeed any other savage beasts of the field, would fain drag me to the theatre, and that I had no intention of going to the theatre, ever, full stop, end of, BAM! When, every evening, I kneel down to lavish praise upon my Maker, my most earnest prayer is that icy claws shall hug me to the bosom of Death rather than that I be propelled through the gaudy doors of the playhouse. Is this so grave a crime that I should be pelted with missiles? I can only surmise that the hot-headed reaction of the townsfolk was occasioned by my tenure, for many long years, as drama critic of the <em>Weekly Shackle</em>. Of course I had never seen any of the thousands of productions I reviewed in its august, if tatty, pages. Given an assignment by my editor, I would note down the play-title on a scrap of paper, place it under my pillow, and <em>dream</em> it. I ask you, humbly—is that so wrong?</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="footnote"><span class="mark">* NOTE :</span> Given the decade in which it occurred, it is a wonder that this scandal was never called “Beerpintgate” (see “Nixon”, 26th February).</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/mar04.htm#2004-03-13-1">[2004-03-13]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
