<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Bees and Beekeepers</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-08-16" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Bees and Beekeepers</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Hollywood has familiarised us with swarms of killer bees, but the subject of homicidal beekeepers is one which has been sadly neglected. Max Décharné has brought to my attention a rare mention of a murderous apiarist in the print media. Reporting on the convulsive reaction to drug-fuelled athletes in Greece, yesterday's <em>Observer</em> reported:</p>
  <p><em>Kederis may now retire rather than fight disciplinary proceedings which look inevitable. Until last Thursday, he was Greece's most popular man. Now he, and Thanou, are seen as traitors. Greeks are united in contempt for the pair bringing such shame on their country at an event they hoped would mark its triumphant emergence as a modern European country. ‘They should be strung up,’ said Litsa Sarantou, a beekeeper. ‘No,’ added retired bank employee Nassos Kafezopoulos. ‘They should be shot.’</em></p>
  <p>Max does not say that he has put aside all his current projects in order to write an opportunistic potboiler in which fearful Hellenic sprinters are pursued by a vigilante beekeeper armed with a rope and a noose, but I am sure he is just hiding his light under a bushel.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/aug04.htm#2004-08-16-1">[2004-08-16]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
