<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Thew's Pod</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-07-14" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Thew's Pod</h1>
  <p>On 30th <a class="internal" href="2004-04-01-hooting-yard-archive-april-2004.xhtml">April</a>, we reported on the space-age-pod-turned-restaurant on the outskirts of Bodger's Spinney, noting that maverick Digby Thew had been appointed as head chef. Building work was completed early in June, and the eaterie has now been open for a month, so we thought we would find out from Mr Thew how things were going. Unfortunately, he was not available for comment, as he suffered a near-fatal casserole accident and is under heavy sedation in some clinic somewhere. His charming assistant chef, who preferred not to give her name, told us:</p>
  <p>“With Digby out of the way, we have been able to turn the space-age-pod into a truly spectacular restaurant. Where else do you think you could get two slices of toast and a cup of boiled goo for the same price as a bag of toffees? The longer that nitwit stays in hospital the better for us, and the better for our customers. And that means better for the socioeconomic infrastructure of Bodger's Spinney and its windswept and dreary hinterland, from the oddly-shaped purple mountains of Lewdbag to the roadworks on the Blister Lane Bypass, from Pang Hill to Loopy Copse. Just the other day I was talking to one of the frogmen who drag the ponds for the bones of drowned birds, and he said that he had never known such bliss. You can't argue with that.”</p>
  
</body>
</html>
