<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Cardboard Club&nbsp;: Correction</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2004-12-16" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>The Cardboard Club&nbsp;: Correction</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I appear to have misunderstood the heading of the previous item, which means that what I wrote above is complete nonsense. The club of the title is not a society or association. It is, rather, a bludgeon. “The cardboard club” refers to a weapon made of cardboard which was used as a theatrical prop during the Bodger's Spinney Variety Theatre's production of Istvan Scrimgeour's Pinteresque drama <em>A Few People Sitting Around In The Dark Hating Each Other</em>. The cardboard club appears in the following scene in Act XVIII:</p>
  <p>The Iris Murdoch Character&nbsp;: Shall we go on a picnic?</p>
  <p>The V S Naipaul Character&nbsp;: (after a pause) Say that again and I'll bash out your brains with a cardboard club.</p>
  <p>The Iris Murdoch Character&nbsp;: I expect you will, but what's your motivation?</p>
  <p>The V S Naipaul Character&nbsp;: (after a longer pause) Put a sock in it.</p>
  <p>The Iris Murdoch Character&nbsp;: Dust and ashes. Ashes and dust.</p>
  <p><em>The V S Naipaul Character bashes the Iris Murdoch Character over the head with the cardboard club, repeatedly. She falls to the ground.</em></p>
  <p>The V S Naipaul Character&nbsp;: Don't say I didn't warn you. I'm going to go and write one of my well-regarded novels.</p>
  <p><em>Exit</em></p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/dec04.htm#2004-12-16-2">[2004-12-16]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
