<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>“The Arabic word ‘bin’, within, becomes, when…”</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2005-01-26" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="quote">
  <h1>Quote of the Day</h1>
  <p>“The Arabic word ‘bin’, within, becomes, when it means interval, space, ‘binnon’; this is the German and Dutch ‘binnen’ and Saxon ‘binnon’, signifying within. The Ethiopian word ‘aorf’, to fall asleep, is the root of the word ‘Morpheus', the god of sleep. The Hebrew word ‘chanah’, to dwell, is the parent of the Anglo-Saxon ‘inne’ and Icelandic ‘inni’, a house, and of our word ‘inn’, a hotel. The Hebrew word ‘naval’ or ‘nafal’ signifies to fall; from it is derived our word fall and fool (one who falls); the Chaldee word is ‘nabal’, to make foul, and the Arabic word ‘nabala’ means to die, that is, to fall. From the last syllable of the Chaldee ‘nasar’, to saw, we can derive the Latin ‘serra’, the High German ‘sagen’, the Danish ‘sauga’, and our word ‘to saw’. The Arabic ‘nafida’, to fade, is the same as the Italian ‘fado’, the Latin ‘fatuus' (foolish, tasteless), the Dutch ‘vadden’, and our ‘to fade’. The Ethiopic word ‘gaber’, to make, to do, and the Arabic word ‘jabara’, to make strong, becomes the Welsh word ‘goberu’, to work, to operate, the Latin ‘operor’, and the English ‘operate’. The Arabic word ‘abara’ signifies to prick, to sting; we see this root in the Welsh ‘bar’, a summit, and ‘pâr’, a spear, and ‘per’, a spit; whence our word ‘spear’. In the Chaldee, Syriac, and Arabic ‘zug’ means to join, to couple; from this the Greeks obtained zugos, the Romans ‘jugum’, and we the word ‘yoke’; while the Germans obtained ‘jok’ or ‘jog’, the Dutch ‘juk’, the Swedes ‘ok’. The Sanscrit is ‘juga’. The Arabic ‘sanna’, to be old, reappears in the Latin ‘senex’, the Welsh ‘hen’, and our ‘senile’. The Hebrew ‘banah’, to build, is the Irish ‘bun’, foundation, and the Latin ‘fundo’, ‘fundare’, to found. The Arabic ‘baraka’, to bend the knee, to fall on the breast, is probably the Saxon ‘brecau’, the Danish ‘bräkke’, the Swedish bräcka, Welsh ‘bregu’, and our word ‘to break’. The Arabic ‘baraka’ also signifies to rain violently; and from this we get the Saxon ‘roegn’, to rain, Dutch ‘regen’, to rain, Cimbric ‘roekia’, rain, Welsh ‘rheg’, rain. The Chaldee word ‘braic’, a branch, is the Irish ‘braic’ or ‘raigh’, an arm, the Welsh ‘braic’, the Latin ‘brachium’, and the English ‘brace’, something which supports like an arm. The Chaldee ‘frak’, to rub, to tread out grain, is the same as the Latin ‘frico’, ‘frio’, and our word ‘rake’. The Arabic word to rub is ‘fraka’. The Chaldee ‘rag’, ‘ragag’, means to desire, to long for; it is the same as the Greek ‘oregw’, the Latin ‘porrigere’, the Saxon ‘roeccan’, the Icelandic ‘rakna’, the German ‘reichen’, and our ‘to reach’, to rage. The Arabic ‘rauka’, to strain or purify, as wine, is precisely our English word ‘rack’, to rack wine. The Hebrew word ‘bara’, to create, is our word to bear, as to bear children: a great number of words in all the European languages contain this root in its various modifications. The Hebrew word ‘kafar’, to cover, is our word ‘to cover’, and ‘coffer’, something which covers, and ‘covert’, a secret place; from this root also comes the Latin ‘cooperio’ and the French ‘couvrir’, to cover. The Arabic word ‘shakala’, to bind under the belly, is our word ‘to shackle’. From the Arabic ‘walada’ and Ethiopian ‘walad’, to beget, to bring forth, we get the Welsh ‘llawd’, a shooting out; and hence our word ‘lad’. Our word ‘matter’, or ‘pus', is from the Arabic ‘madda’; our word ‘mature’ is originally from the Chaldee ‘mita’. The Arabic word ‘amida’ signifies to end, and from this comes the noun, a limit, a termination, Latin ‘meta’, and our words ‘meet’ and ‘mete’. I might continue this list, but I have given enough to show that all the Atlantean races once spoke the same language.” — Ignatius Donnelly, <em>Atlantis&nbsp;: The Antedeluvian World</em></p>
  
</body>
</html>
