<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Horse Begone</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2005-09-04" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Horse Begone</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I met her on a Monday and my heart stood still.</p>
  <p>“Da doo ron ron, horse begone!” she cried. It was an incantation, in a field, and sure enough, the horse to whom she addressed these words turned and cantered away, until it could no longer be seen in the mist and the drizzle.</p>
  <p>Somebody told me that her name was Jill, but before I could ask her, she was casting her spells again.</p>
  <p>“Hoo-di hoo-di woo, cow begone!” she yelled, at a cow, but this time without the desired effect. The cow just stared back at her, chewing its cud, the way cows do.</p>
  <p>“Hoo-di hoo-di woo, cow begone!” she repeated, a little desperately, I thought. If I'd been the cow, I would have sensed a moment of panic, of confidence drained. Jill—if Jill was her name—repeated her incantation too soon. The cow did not move.</p>
  <p>So I took the opportunity to stride purposefully across the field in my creaking black boots until I was face to face with her.</p>
  <p>“Somebody told me that your name is Jill,” I said, essaying a bow as if I were some sort of Regency fop.</p>
  <p>“My name is not Jill,” she hissed, “I am the Woohoohoodiwoodadooronron Woman. Fop begone!” and I found myself propelled by some eldritch force into a weird netherworld where I languish to this day, my only companion the horse. There is no sign of the cow.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/sep05.htm#2005-09-04-1">[2005-09-04]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
