<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Spot the Nun Competition Results</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2005-07-24" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Spot the Nun Competition Results</h1>
  <p>The Adjudication Panel for the Spot The Nun Competition (see Friday 15th July below) had a tense meeting in the gorgeously redecorated Bodger's Spinney Tea Rooms yesterday. I am not sure why it was tense, though there was some sort of magnetic disturbance in the atmosphere, and one of the tea urns was making violent throbbing noises. Anyway, the winner of the competition was announced after several hours of deliberation. Reader Vincent Byrne of California sent in this correct entry:</p>
  <p><em>If you look far enough into the background on “C”, using a magnifying glass, you will see that there is, in fact, a nun glowering at the men holding the calf, with a ruler ready in hand. “D”, on the other hand is a picture of a drawing of a nun, and therefore not wholly a nun. “A” and “B” are much the same as “D”, being records of famous nuns, but not nuns in themselves.</em></p>
  <p>Vincent's prize is a no-expenses spared visit to examine the important roadworks at the Blister Lane Bypass. Well done!</p>
  
</body>
</html>
