<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Cake News</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2005-07-15" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Cake News</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I know that readers always look forward to <em>Cake News</em>, our weekly round-up of news, views and demented rantings from the world o' cake. Whether you're an aficionado of chocolate swiss roll or of Old Mother Brimstone's blob triangles, you'll find <em>Cake News</em> essential reading.</p>
  <p>Sometimes you might find yourself miles away from the nearest cake-shop, at the wheel of a tractor belching poisonous fumes perhaps, out in a field, suddenly overwhelmed by a desire to eat a sponge cake with raspberry jam filling. And yet all you have with you, tucked in the cubby of your tractor, is a flask of water, and the water is stale, because you filled the flask from a spigot over a fortnight ago. The moon is shining brightly and fat stars splatter the sky. You are engaged in illicit night-time tractoring, for you are a malefactor soaked in crime. But even criminals need cake, as was pointed out long ago by the social scientist Vargas Vorgas Vig, who wrote: “My studies have shown that cake appetite is not dependent upon the subjects' propensity for law-breaking, malfeasance and pelf.”</p>
  <p>In Biblical times, of course, you might expect manna to fall from heaven (see for example <em>Exodus 16: xiv</em>), but these are not Biblical times, clearly, for if they were you would not be driving a tractor. In those days they had no tractors. Where then, are you to find the succour of cake, out in a field in the middle of the night? The sad answer, I am afraid, is that you are not. You will have to abandon your tractor and trudge to the nearest town and locate a cake-shop, and if it is shut, as it will be, during the night, you will have to jemmy the lock, which you will do with skill, being a criminal, and creep on tiptoe to the cake-shop pantry to find the cake-hoard. Ah, but there too you will find Inspector Smedley the Cake Detective, who will place his mighty paw on your shoulder and place you under arrest.</p>
  <p>The moral of this story is that you should always wait for a cake-shop to open its shutters in the morning.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
