<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>“Cornelius Gemma, lib. 2. de nat. mirac.…”</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2005-01-03" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="quote">
  <h1>Quote of the Day</h1>
  <p class="noindent">“Cornelius Gemma, <em>lib. 2. de nat. mirac. c. 4.</em> relates of a young maid, called Katherine Gualter, a cooper's daughter, <em>an. 1571.</em> that had such strange passions and convulsions, three men could not sometimes hold her; she purged a live eel, which he saw, a foot and a half long, and touched it himself; but the eel afterwards vanished; she vomited some twenty-four pounds of fulsome stuff of all colours, twice a day for fourteen days; and after that she voided great balls of hair, pieces of wood, pigeon's dung, parchment, goose dung, coals; and after them two pounds of pure blood, and then again coals and stones, on which some had inscriptions bigger than a walnut, some of them pieces of glass, brass, &amp;c. besides paroxysms of laughing, weeping and ecstasies, &amp;c. <em>Et hoc (inquit) cum horore vidi,</em> this I saw with horror.” — Robert Burton, <em><a class="external" href="http://www.complete-review.com/reviews/divphil/burtonr.htm">The Anatomy Of Melancholy</a>…</em></p>
  <p>… the greatest book in the English language, from which I could quote endlessly, did I not have a one-quotation-per-writer policy for the Hooting Yard quote of the day. Arbitrary and senseless, I know, but therein lies part of this site's charm.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
