<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Glyn</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2005-05-24" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Glyn</h1>
  <p class="noindent">In the Antipodes, Glyn Webster has not been idle. He has spent valuable time devising Hooting Yard Scrabble®, the rules of which he expounds as follows:</p>
  <p>1. Acronyms, Roman numerals, proper nouns and non-English words are allowed.</p>
  <p>2. Ordinary tiles may be used to represent accented letters.</p>
  <p>3. The blank tiles may be used to represent apostrophes, ligatures or non-Roman letters.</p>
  <p>4. Any word previously made up by Frank Key is acceptable.</p>
  <p>5. A misspelt word is acceptable, providing that the misspelling appears in the canon of Frank Key.</p>
  <p>6. If Frank Key creates a new written work in the course of a game he must replace all the tiles on his rack.</p>
  <p>Glyn has also produced what he calls a “cheatsheet” containing all permitted words in Hooting Yard Scrabble®, which readers can pore over with breathless enthusiasm <a class="external" href="http://www.wave.co.nz/%7Eglyn/hooting-yard-scrabble-cheatsheet.txt">here</a>. I feel I ought to point out that, when rule five refers to misspellings, these are spellings—often archaic—which appear in quoted passages, rather than infelicities of my own. Should you be able to drag yourself away from <a class="external" href="http://www.wave.co.nz/%7Eglyn/hooting-yard-scrabble-cheatsheet.txt">Glyn's majestic wordlist</a>, there will be further news from correspondents tomorrow, together with an introduction to an ancient mystic art of which Pansy Cradledew has become an Adept…</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/may05.htm#2005-05-24-3">[2005-05-24]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
