<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The Story of the Lame Dog, the Caged Bird, the Drowned Cat, the Gold Watch, the Whisky Boy and the Insane Boy</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2005-06-11" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>The Story of the Lame Dog, the Caged Bird, the Drowned Cat, the Gold Watch, the Whisky Boy and the Insane Boy</h1>
  <p>Once upon a time, there was an insane boy who could only be becalmed by listening to prog rock.</p>
  <p>On Monday, a Barclay James Harvest album was played to him.</p>
  <p>On Tuesday, there was a power cut, and in his mania the insane boy went out and attacked a lame dog. The dog's name was Hoo-Boo-Goo. It was a winter ghost dog.</p>
  <p>On Wednesday, electricity was restored and the insane boy listened over and over again to <em>Pantagruel's Nativity</em> by Gentle Giant.</p>
  <p>On Thursday the insane boy absconded from his deep dark dank cellar and headed for the hills. With one swift inhuman movement he plucked a starling from the sky and put it in a birdcage.</p>
  <p>On Friday his keepers forced the insane boy to listen to Atomic Rooster at an almost imperceptible volume.</p>
  <p>On Saturday the insane boy took advantage of a moment's inattention on the part of his guards to drown a cat in a puddle. The cat was called Fad-Fod-Flap and it was fourteen years old.</p>
  <p>On Sunday Carl Palmer of Emerson Lake And Palmer visited the insane boy and played a drum solo that lasted all day.</p>
  <p>On Monday the insane boy smashed a gold watch into a thousand bits with his terrifyingly pale fists.</p>
  <p>On Tuesday the insane boy had an iPod with only one track clamped to his head. The song was <em>A Plague Of Lighthouse Keepers</em> by Van Der Graaf Generator.</p>
  <p>On Wednesday the insane boy managed to smuggle a bottle of spirits into his filthy cell. The warders wrote a report for Captain Jarvis in which they called the insane boy “the whisky boy”, inaccurately, as the bottle contained turps.</p>
  <p>On Thursday the insane boy begged to hear <em>Tales Of Topographic Oceans</em> by Yes.</p>
  <p>On Friday he was pronounced incurable.</p>
  <p>That story was in words of more than one syllable. It has no moral.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
