<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Testimony of a Tundist &amp; Related Matters</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-06-08" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1><em>Testimony of a Tundist</em> &amp; Related Matters</h1>
  <p>Yes, yes, I know you have been tearing your hair out in the absence of recent Hooting Yard bulletins. I can only apologise. Every now and then, I am consumed by self-doubt, knowing in my heart that I will never be as great a writer as the out of print pamphleteer Dobson. You have no idea how hard it can be, to sit staring at that blank screen, fingertips poised over the keyboard, knowing that no matter how hard you try, you will never in your life write anything fit to share the same universe as <em>Squelching Through A Field Outside Oswestry During A Thunderstorm, Humming ‘Heavy Horses' by Jethro Tull.</em></p>
  <p>But anyway… we must all try. So Mr Key is back again, however fruitlessly. And with an announcement to make before anything else. The serial story <em>Testimony Of A Tundist</em> (see below for the first five episodes) ought to be continuing from today, but due to a very nonsensical reason has had to be postponed. The sixth part, and those following, will appear here from next week onwards.</p>
  <p>And so we move on…</p>
  
</body>
</html>
