<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Q Is for Quintain</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-02-13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Q Is for Quintain</h1>
  <p>Being today's episode in the alphabetical serial story they're calling <em>The Immense Duckpond Pamphlet</em></p>
  <p>Ruhugu's tank rumbled to a halt outside the Leaking Building. He clambered to the ground, the burnt quintain steady in his grasp. He no longer cared that Jubble had almost destroyed it on one of his bonfires. Ruhugu had managed to rescue it in the nick of time, singeing his elegantly-manicured hands as he did so. He knew that he would need the quintain again, otherwise he would have nothing to tilt at on the day of the tourney. So now he seldom let it out of his sight, taking it with him even on his regular tank manoeuvres.</p>
  <p>Of course, Ruhugu had reported Jubble's pyromaniacal tendencies to Doctor Cack, but his mentor had been preoccupied. So often in recent weeks Doctor Cack seemed a world away. Ruhugu thought it best to leave him be, as the Doctor moped and frowned, his brow furrowed, a potato in each hand, a potato in each of his innumerable pockets, a potato balanced precariously atop his hat, even a small potato lodged in his mouth. Like the Wild Boy of Aveyron, he would utter shrill cries if his potatoes were taken away from him<span class="asterisk">*</span>.</p>
  <p class="footnote"><span class="mark">*NOTE&nbsp;:</span> This last sentence is entirely factual.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
