<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>O Cure Me</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-03-06" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>O Cure Me</h1>
  <p class="noindent"><em><strong>The Guardian</strong></em><strong>runs a daily selection from its <a class="external" href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/fromthearchive">archives</a>. Today's article (advertisement?), originally published on 6 March 1844, is so good that I am including it here:</strong></p>
  <p>Worms Destroyed&nbsp;: Medicine never witnessed a more important discovery than in Pritchett's Vegetable Vermifuge, a remedy that neither purges, vomits, nor otherwise affects the constitution; requires no confinement, has neither taste nor smell, and is so harmless that it may be taken by an infant of an hour old; yet never, in one instance, failed destroying every worm in the body. It contains not a particle of calomel, scammony, gamboge, or other drastic article. Large packets 2s.9d.</p>
  <p>Apoplexy Prevented&nbsp;: Determination of blood to the head effectually prevented by the occasional use of Frampton's Pill of Health, which, by strengthening the action of the stomach, prevents alarming giddiness, oppression of the brain, singing noise in the ears, headache. They are an excellent aperient, without griping or prostration of strength. Price 1 1/2d. and 2s.9d. a box.</p>
  <p>For Stopping Decayed Teeth&nbsp;: Patronised by her Majesty the Queen, his Royal Highness Prince Albert, her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, his Majesty the King of the Belgians, his Majesty the King of Prussia, his Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, and nearly all the nobility, the bishops, and the clergy. Mr Thomas's Succedaneum, for filling decayed teeth, however large the cavity. It is superior to anything ever before used, as it is placed in the tooth in a soft state, without any pressure or pain, and in a short time becomes as hard as the enamel, and will remain firm in the tooth for many years, rendering extraction unnecessary. It arrests all further progress of decay, and renders them again useful in mastication. All persons can use Mr Thomas's Succedaneum themselves with else, without the aid of a dentist. Prepared only by Mr. Thomas, surgeon-dentist, 8, Berners-street, Oxford-street, London ; price 4s. 6d. Mr Thomas will send it free by post.</p>
  <p>General Debility&nbsp;: To these who are suffering from nervous complaints, rheumatism, scurvy, sorbutic eruptions and all diseases arising from impurity of the blood. The Cordial Balm of Syriacum is a gentle stimulant and enovator of the impaired functions of life, and is, therefore, calculated to afford decided relief to those who have fallen into a state of most chronic debility. It possesses wonderful efficacy in fits, headache, weakness, heaviness, dimness of sight, confused thoughts, wandering of the mind, and all kinds of hysteric complaints. Price 11s.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
