<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>A Hymn</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-03-30" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>A Hymn</h1>
  <p class="noindent">(To the tune of <em>Bring Me Your Winding-Sheet, Oh Mother Of Mine</em>)</p>
  <p>Cold and dark is this awful night, as I shiver in my shed. The Lord He has forsaken me and deprived me of my bed. I have no pies nor pastries to shovel down my gob. Oh the Lord He has forsaken me. All I can do is sob.</p>
  <p>I weep in my allotment shed, I weep until the dawn. I curse the very buttercups upon the village lawn. The Lord He has forsaken me and I am so forlorn. I wail and gnash my rotting teeth that I was ever born.</p>
  <p>My name is Leo Sayer, I am short, with frizzy hair. I sit here in my wooden shed upon a wooden chair. I curse the fact that I share my name with a singer of pop pap, and then I spill my flask of boiling tea into my lap.</p>
  <p>The Lord He has forsaken me, all I can do is whine. O Lord God Almighty, please send me a sign. Please stop people thinking that I'm the singer Leo S, the small-of-stature minstrel who got me in this mess.</p>
  <p>He fled to the Antipodes, or so I have been told. He moved across the globe because his records undersold. It seems the Lord forsook him too, but that is only right. I sob and wail in my shed on this dark and awful night.</p>
  <p class="centered"><strong>DETOURS&nbsp;: <a class="external" href="http://www.georgeglazer.com/maps/celestial/muggs.html">Muggletonian Celestial Prints</a> … <a class="external" href="http://www.raptureready.com/">Rapture Ready</a> … <a class="external" href="http://www.nicecupofteaandasitdown.com/">Nice Cup Of Tea And A Sit Down</a></strong></p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/mar06.htm#2006-03-30-2">[2006-03-30]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
