<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Identification With Buttercups</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-02-14" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Identification With Buttercups</h1>
  <p>Today's quotation is taken from one of the many splendid poems on the <a class="external" href="http://www.teenangstpoetry.com">Teen Angst</a> website. This is a collection of magnificently intense verse “contributed by people eighteen and over who have overcome their angst and are able to laugh at their past (and the products of their angst)”. I chose Erin Millar's piece because I, too, have often identified myself with the buttercup. Here is an extract from an interview I gave some years ago:</p>
  <p><em>Interviewer</em>—So then, Frank, if you were a flower of the field, what flower of the field would you be?</p>
  <p><em>Frank</em>—I would be a buttercup.</p>
  <p><em>Interviewer</em>—Are you saying that you would like to poison cows, or at least cause cows indigestion or other mild gastric ailments?</p>
  <p><em>Frank</em>—Sometimes, yes, if the weight of the world hangs heavy on my shoulders and I lose all sense of moral purpose, that would be true, regrettably.</p>
  <p><em>Interviewer</em>—I commend you for the brutal honesty of your reply, Frank, but you do realise that I could turn you over to the police as a potential danger to cows?</p>
  <p><em>Frank</em>—Crikey! I hadn't thought of that!</p>
  <p><em>Interviewer</em>—Is there any particular type of buttercup you particularly identify with?</p>
  <p><em>Frank</em>—Yes, there is. I would be happiest, I think, as a celeryleaf buttercup, because it is also known as cursed crowfoot.</p>
  <p><em>Interviewer</em>—Well, that's all we have time for. Thanks, Frank. <em>[Turns to camera]</em> If there are any cows watching, don't have nightmares. Frank isn't really a buttercup, and he's not going to come and poison you.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
