<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>“The following is a list of lunar…”</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-09-02" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="quote">
  <h1>Quote of the Day</h1>
  <p class="noindent">“The following is a list of lunar objects published in the <em>Selenographical Journal</em>&nbsp;: 0 deg. Black shadows. 1 deg. Darkest portions of the floors of Grimaldi and Riccioli. 1 1/2 deg. Interiors of Boscovich, Billy, and Zupus. 2 deg. Floors of Endymion, Le Monnier, Julius Caesar, Cruger, and Fourier a. 2 1/2 deg. Interiors of Azout, Vitruvius, Pitatus, Hippalus, and Marius. 3 deg. Interiors of Taruntius, Plinius, Theophilus, Parrot, Flamsteed, and Mercator. 3 1/2 deg. Interiors of Hansen, Archimedes, and Mersenius. 4 deg. Interiors of Manilius, Ptolemaeus, and Guerike. 4 1/2 deg. Surface round Aristillus, Sinus Medii. 5 deg. Walls of Arago, Landsberg, and Bullialdus. Surface round Kepler and Archimedes. 5 1/2 deg. Walls of Picard and Timocharis. Rays from Copernicus. 6 deg. Walls of Macrobius, Kant, Bessel, Mosting, and Flamsteed. 6 1/2 deg. Walls of Langrenus, Theaetetus, and Lahire. 7 deg. Theon, Ariadaeus, Bode B, Wichmann, and Kepler. 7 1/2 deg. Ukert, Hortensius, Euclides. 8 deg. Walls of Godin, Bode, and Copernicus. 8 1/2 deg. Walls of Proclus, Bode A, and Hipparchus c. 9 deg. Censorinus, Dionysius, Mosting A, and Mersenius B and c. 9 1/2 deg. Interior of Aristarchus, La Peyrouse DELTA. 10 deg. Central peak of Aristarchus.” — Thomas Gwyn Elger, <em>The Moon</em></p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/sep06.htm#2006-09-02">[2006-09-02]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
