<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>X Is for X</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-02-25" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>X Is for X</h1>
  <p>Chapter twenty-four of <em>The Immense Duckpond Pamphlet</em></p>
  <p>With his mighty paw, Detective Captain Unstrebnodtalb was about to scratch a bloody X on the forehead of Doctor Cack's murderer when his esteemed colleague the sleuth Aminadab came crashing on to the scene. He was carrying a punnet full to the brim with odd and inconsequential objects, which he proceeded to describe to Unstrebnodtalb at length. Readers avid for the details should send an <span class="broken" title="This mailbox is defunct.">email</span> headed <em>Please tell me what was in the sleuth Aminadab's brimming punnet</em>, to which the author will reply individually, to the point of tedium.</p>
  <p>But Aminadab's rambling drivel cannot be allowed to keep us from the denouement of this exciting story.</p>
  <p>“Hush! Hush! Aminadab, you are a sleuth about whom legends will accrete, but for the love of G-d hold your tongue!” screeched Unstrebnodtalb, setting fire to a small herb garden with a blast of his breath.</p>
  <p>Aminadab unzipped himself from his terrifying aquatic monster costume and placed his punnet on a flagstone next to one of Blodgett's fly-traps.</p>
  <p>“You would do well to pay attention to my rambling drivel, Detective Captain Unstrobnedtalb,” he said, “For it is only because I carry with me at all times a vial of cassiber serum that I am able to assist you in bringing this case to a satisfactory conclusion. The deranged potato scientist Moop stunned me with an incredibly powerful poisonous dart from her blowpipe. By rights I should be in a coma. As it is, I had a split second in which to bite on a serum pill and thus outwit her!”</p>
  <p>Detective Captain Unstrebnodtalb clawed at the sky, wailing horribly. “Very clever, Aminadab. But stop calling me Unstrobnedtalb, G-d damn you!”</p>
  <p>While the two detectives were occupied with this banter, the culprit fled into the crumbling ruins of the House, forehead yet unmarked with an X.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
