<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Some Death Notices</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected works of Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2006-08-08" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body class="post">
  <h1>Some Death Notices</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I ran across a selection of <a class="external" href="http://freepages.genealogy.rootsweb.com/%7Ewjmartin/democrat.htm">19th century death notices</a> from a Michigan newspaper. Here are a few for your perusal:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">Thursday, May 12, 1887 Mrs. Chas. Martin, wife of a farmer living near Grand Rapids, poisoned herself and two of her children on the 3d, with “rough on rats.”</p>
    <p>Thursday, May 12, 1887 A terrible accident occurred in the rolling mill of the Hubbard Iron company, at Hubbard, Ohio, shortly after 2 o'clock on the morning of the 6th. Engineer Griffith Phillipps, aged 29 years, in passing around the ore crusher oiling the bearings, was caught in the wheels and dragged into the crusher. He was mangled out of all semblance of humanity, the flesh adhering to the clogs. He leaves a wife and 3 children.</p>
    <p>Thursday, June 2, 1887 At Canton, Ohio, last week, Charles Danseizen, a bricklayer, went home drunk and, picking up a butcher-knife six inches long, murdered his wife by stabbing her in the throat. He says she drove him to the deed because she joined the Salvation Army.</p>
    <p>Thursday, November 24, 1887 It is said on the street that Miss Ida Carew, who mashed the patrons of the variety theatre by her song, “You can't do it, you know”, died at New Orleans lately.</p>
    <p>Saturday, April 14, 1888 Miss Metta Fordham, of Bronson, a music teacher and exceedingly bright young lady, died with measles. When the disease first seized her she told her friends she would never get well.</p>
    <p>Saturday, May 12, 1888 John Winter, who died recently at Grand Rapids, is alleged to have said with his dying breath that his wife poisoned him. The woman and her neighbors agree that he died of dissolute habits.</p>
  </blockquote>
  
</body>
</html>
