<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Sebag</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-178">Sebag</h1>
  <p><a href="http://books.guardian.co.uk/reviews/biography/0,,2078281,00.html" class="external"><em><strong>Young Stalin</strong></em></a> sounds like an instructive and entertaining biography, and I will add it to my reading list. I mention it here, though, simply as an excuse to celebrate the name of the author, Simon Sebag Montefiore. I want that middle name! Granted, <em>Frank Sebag Key</em> does not have the mellifluous multisyllabic beauty of <em>Simon Sebag Montefiore</em>, but it will have to do.</p>
  <p>Herman Melville's <em>Moby Dick; or The Whale</em> is a work of matchless genius, and it may be considered sacrilege to tamper with the text. I can't help but feel, however, that if the opening line was “Call me Sebag” it would somehow be even better.</p>
  <p>Incidentally, I discovered that Simon Sebag Montefiore is married to the sister of Tara Palmer-Tomkinson. A rich pap-brained partygoer is an unlikely Hooting Yard heroine, but I have had a measure of admiration for Ms Palmer-Tomkinson ever since, on television a few years ago, she uttered the immortal line “Those are Uri's underpants. Burn them”. Uri being, of course, the dismal charlatan Uri Geller.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
