<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Mystic Woo</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-254">Mystic Woo</h1>
  <p class="noindent">It's easy to be cynical about the idea of reincarnation, and even easier to mock the countless websites devoted to mystic woo in all its forms. But today I had what platitudinists would term a “wake up call”. At <a href="http://www.thebigview.com/pastlife/" class="external"><strong>Past Life Analysis</strong></a>, you will find a simple “analysis program” to answer the question “Who were you in your last life?” It looks idiotic, and I do not recommend reading the Disclaimer, but when I entered my birthdate I was flabbergasted to get this result:</p>
  <p class="linebreaks"><strong><em>Your past life diagnosis:</em></strong><br />
  <em>I don't know how you feel about it, but you were male in your last earthly incarnation. You were a fictional athlete, a sprinter and pole-vaulter named Bobnit Tivol, and you won many tin medals under the guidance of a cantankerous chain-smoking coach called Old Halob.</em></p>
  <p><strong><em>Your brief psychological profile in your past life:<br /></em></strong> <em>Seeker of cakes and celery pie. You could have had great insight into ancient Etruscan soap-making techniques. Others perceived you as a pioneering prophet of Edward De Bono's revolutionary “Six Hats Thinking System”, even though you only had two hats.</em></p>
  <p><strong><em>The lesson that your last past life brought to your present incarnation:<br /></em></strong> <em>You fulfil your lesson by taking well-earned naps. You came to this life to learn to brim with compassionate intensity whenever you contemplate the spindly inmates of Pang Hill Orphanage.</em></p>
  <p><em>Do you remember now?</em></p>
  <p>To which the answer is&nbsp;: Great Heavens to Betsy, I do!</p>
  
</body>
</html>
