<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Very Brief Hiatus</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-130">Very Brief Hiatus</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Astute readers, and fanatical Dobsonists, will have noticed that yesterday was the first post-free day since Hooting Yard was relaunched at the beginning of February. The reasons for this are twofold.</p>
  <p>1. I have a stinking cold, and am much dependent on Lemsip, which readers will recall is the favoured tipple of our poet laureate Andrew Motion. In fact, I have taken to calling it Motion Potion. In theory, sufficient draughts of this piping hot medicament ought to inspire me to write poetry, just as happens with Mr M. Alas, I seem to be immune.</p>
  <p>2. When not whimpering and snuffling and weakly calling <em>aidez-moi!</em> (see Bulle Ogier in <em>Celine &amp; Julie Go Boating</em>, my role model when ill) I am concentrating on a couple of other projects which will be of interest to readers. The follow-up to <em>Befuddled By Cormorants</em> is now in preparation. <em>Unspeakable Desolation Pouring Down From The Stars</em> will include the novella-length title story and two other pieces, together with some charming drawings of postage stamps. In addition, I have been struck by the success of the auctions of ancient Key works in raising hundreds of pounds for ResonanceFM, and have been digging around in the Archives (ie, a couple of cardboard boxes in a cupboard) to see what other material might be made available to people with both money <em>and</em> sense. Watch this space for the imminent announcement of Hooting Yard Auction Number One, likely to feature original artwork.</p>
  <p>NOTE&nbsp;: The current Resonance fundraising auction has been moved to eBay. You can place bids for copies of <a href="http://cgi.ebay.co.uk/Frank-Key-The-Brink-of-Cramp-Signed-edition-of-eight_W0QQitemZ180098467288QQcategoryZ2232QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem" class="external"><em><strong>The Brink Of Cramp</strong></em></a> and <a href="http://cgi.ebay.co.uk/Frank-Key-House-of-Turps-Signed_W0QQitemZ180098470238QQcategoryZ2232QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem" class="external"><em><strong>House Of Turps</strong></em></a>.</p>
  <p>UPDATE&nbsp;: At the end of bidding, these two titles between them raised £199 for Resonance. Thank you to the successful bidders.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
