<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Name That Boy!</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-194">Name That Boy!</h1>
  <p>I read somewhere last week that Mohammed is now the second most popular name for newborn boys in the UK. It strikes me as a bit odd that you can get beheaded for drawing a picture of the Prophet Mohammed, but it's perfectly fine to attach his name to your son. Still, there is much about Islam that I find perplexing, such as a recent <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/12/world/middleeast/12fatwa.html?ex=1339300800&amp;en=66f424696aa72e44&amp;ei=5090&amp;partner=rssuserland&amp;emc=rss" class="external">fatwa</a> in Egypt which allows an unmarried woman to work in an office alongside men so long as she breastfeeds each of them five times to create a familial bond. Now there's a sensible idea.</p>
  <p>Anyway, I was prompted to think about boys' names, and more particularly what name I would ideally like to see in the number one spot above Mohammed. Readers will know that I am very keen on <a href="2007-05-24-sebag.xhtml" class="internal" title="Sebag">Sebag</a>, but my current choice to become the most popular boys' name is Suetonius.</p>
  <p>Not only is it a splendid, resounding name, but of course it also commemorates the author of <strong><a href="http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/6400" class="external"><em>The Lives Of The Twelve Caesars</em></a></strong>. Suetonius—whose full name was Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus—can be seen as a kind of Dobson-like figure, in that many of his works are terminally out of print. That is, they are lost, possibly forever. We know that he wrote, among other things, <em>Physical Defects Of Mankind</em>, <em>Lives Of Famous Whores</em>, and an essay on <em>Critical Signs Used In Books</em>, but no trace of them survives. Luckily, we do have the rattling good read that is <em>The Lives Of The Twelve Caesars</em>.</p>
  <p>George Costanza, in <em>Seinfeld</em>, favoured the names Soda and Seven, neither of which holds a candle to Suetonius in my opinion. So if there are any expectant parents reading this, and your newborn is a boy, do the decent thing and name him after the Roman Ur-Dobson. And mothers please note! While I would recommend breastfeeding, it would probably be a good idea to limit the milk supply to little Suetonius, rather than sharing it out among those unprepossessing gits in the accounts department.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
