<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Pointy Town News</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-101">Pointy Town News</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Is Hooting Yard a lopsided version of the world, or is the world a lopsided version of Hooting Yard? Today, news comes in that leads us a little closer to answering that age-old question.</p>
  <p>The comments appended here by readers are always worthy of your attention. Occasionally I think it necessary to give a comment a more prominent airing, for even the most assiduous reader might miss a buried gem. Like this one, received today regarding <em><a href="http://www.hootingyard.org/?p=84" class="hootingyard">The Heroic Bus Driver Of Pointy Town</a></em>:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent"><em>Hi there. With all this discussion of our township I thought it was about time we thanked you for putting Pointy Town on the map. Well, it already is on the map of the Yukon Territory here in Canada, but we don't get to be in the news much. Pointy Town has just elected a Mayor for the first time, after being recognised as a township, and we have appointed a promotions chief to put us on the Web. The Mayor is Johnny Osikomiwasa (proud of his Inuit roots) and his buzz word this week is ‘promotion’. So that's what I am doing. So I intend to climb to the top of Pointy Hill (it really is very pointy) and start promoting—well actually I will probably have to do the promoting from my office computer. So keep up the good work and tell the world about our Pointy Town. Hugs, Kelly (very tired, on fire watch)</em></p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">Now, Kelly Le Cornu, my correspondent, has an email address at pointytown.com.ca, and I have no reason to believe she is a fictional character. Isn't it marvellous to think that there is a <em>real</em> Pointy Town, with a Pointy Hill? I am looking forward to the promised web presence of this magnificent township, and will certainly link to it. If anyone would like to start planning an outing, let me know. As some wag put it the other day, “it's like Hooting Yard gone mad!”</p>
  
</body>
</html>
