<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Aztec Fundamentalism</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-80">Aztec Fundamentalism</h1>
  <p>Ye gods and little fishes! It seems you can't breathe a word about religion these days without being deemed “offensive”. Yesterday's piece <a href="2007-02-25-a-weekend-with-an-owl-god.xhtml" class="internal" title="A Weekend With An Owl God">A Weekend With An Owl God</a> brought to my postbag a letter from Stephen Atahualpagreen of Aztec Voice:</p>
  <p><em>Dear Mr Key&nbsp;: I am writing to protest in the strongest possible terms about your slanderous treatment of the Aztec faith. Traducing the name of our night owl god Chalchiuhtecolotl in such disgusting terms is not funny. It is deeply offensive to our most cherished beliefs. Like any other religion, the Aztec faith demands respect in 21<sup>st</sup> century Britain, which means, among other things, respecting our cultural right to practice a bloody form of human sacrifice on big stone altars. As well as feeling wounded and offended, your attack has also made us angry, and you know what happens when the gods get angry. Please send me your postal address and telephone number so I can publish them on our <a href="http://www.christianvoice.org.uk/" class="external">website</a> and provoke other Aztec believers to exact the retribution which is your due fate.</em></p>
  <p>I did a bit of research into Mr Atahualpagreen. Apparently he sends his children to an Aztec faith school and has successfully applied for government funding to set up something called the Aztec Human Rights Commission.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
