<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Silos Of Concern</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-154">Silos Of Concern</h1>
  <p class="noindent">The front page of the online <em>Guardian</em> was recently redesigned, and there is a <a href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/readerseditor/story/0,,2078755,00.html" class="external">piece in today's paper</a> about readers' reactions. Some people like the new look, some don't. “Emily Bell [online editor… sorry, ‘director of digital content’] has made it clear that there is no going back,” apparently, but the disgruntled among the readership can rest assured—“she is listening to the feedback from users. Comments posted to her blog are being reviewed and sorted into ‘silos of concern’ to be considered by editors, web developers and designers.”</p>
  <p>I think what is meant here is that she has sorted out the comments, putting like with like. There are comments about fonts, ease of navigation, arrangement of menus, and so on. What I want to know is why a simple ‘category’ becomes a ‘silo of concern’? Do they think this sounds clever? Does it make the job of the unpaid work experience trainee doing the sorting out more exciting? “Pashmina, I want you to go through all the comments we've received and place each one in its SILO OF CONCERN!” I expect there is a Hub around which all the Silos are arranged, and each Silo will be dealt with in a series of Tranches.</p>
  <p>John Birt made a career out of this kind of gobbledegook in his days at the BBC, where an ‘arrow’ became a ‘directional pointing device’, for example. Why does no one ever take these people aside and gently point out to them that they are embarrassing themselves? Straightforward pomposity I could understand, but it's more like the bureaucratic equivalent of teenage poetry, where the (mis)use of ‘big words' is a hapless attempt to confer profundity.</p>
  <p>According to the OED, which even the witless twelve-year-olds at the <em>Guardian</em> must have heard of, there are four distinct meanings of <em>silo</em>.</p>
  <p><em>Smooching With Istvan</em>, the second Malice Aforethought Press anthology of writings and drawings by Mr Key and Max Décharné. Well do I remember creating the covers by spraying sheets of card with seven or eight different colours of car spray paint in a closed room. I should have opened the windows. Incidentally, it is within the pages of <em>Smooching With Istvan</em> that the words “Hooting Yard” appeared in print for the very first time. I will shortly be auctioning an exceedingly rare copy of this one hundred page collection of bran tub scrapings on eBay, but before doing so I will accept bids here, until noon on Saturday 19<sup>th</sup> May. A full eBay-style description of the book is added in the Comments. Taking advice from the kinds of people who advise me on such things, the starting price is £100.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/154">[2007-05-14]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
