<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Sandals Of Fire &amp; Boiling Brains</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Sandals Of Fire &amp; Boiling Brains</h1>
  <p><em>There's nothing quite like a bit of eye-popping religious frenzy, is there? Bear in mind, as you consider the spiritual wisdom that follows, that Allah is routinely described by his adherents as “merciful”. I'd hate to come across him in a bad mood…</em></p>
  <p>The hellfire is a place of the most extreme suffering, the most extreme pain of every level that you can imagine—physical, mental, and spiritual pain and suffering and torment. It is a place where Allah will burn the skins of the people, and then he will recreate their skins, and burn the skins again, so that the people in there will taste the punishment. It is a place of heat, a place of pain, a place of suffering. The people will cry in agony for water. They will cry for a drink—something to cool them—and they will be given water, they will be given a drink, but it is boiling water that will scald their faces and burn their insides.</p>
  <p>They will drink from a river, a river that is made from the pus that flows out of the wounds of the people of the hellfire. The wounds of the people of the hellfire will ooze pus, and this pus will gather together to form a river, and this is all they will have to drink. And their food will be the tree of&nbsp;<em>Zakum</em>, a tree the fruits of which are like the heads of devils. This tree is so bitter that if the people try to eat it, they can't eat it. But they will force themselves, because there is nothing else to eat in the hellfire—a place where the people will neither live, nor will they die, a place where the people will fall into despair, arguing with each other, admonishing each other, criticizing each other. The fire will surround them in every place. The smallest punishment of the hellfire is that a person will wear a pair of sandals of fire, and their brain will boil…</p>
  <p><em>Thus <del>Anthony</del> Abdul Rahim Green, spouting on Peace TV, amusingly dubbed the “24 Hour Islamic Spiritual Edutainment Satellite TV Channel”. Thanks to <strong><a href="http://mickhartley.typepad.com/blog/2008/11/hellfire-and-damnation.html" class="external">Mick Hartley</a></strong>.&nbsp;</em></p>
  
</body>
</html>
