<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Derailed By Bees</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-330">Derailed By Bees</h1>
  <p class="noindent">How right I was to predict that the <a href="http://www.nhm.ac.uk/kids-only/naturecams/beecam/index.html" class="external"><strong>Beecam</strong></a> would derail my harebrained scheme to make Hooting Yard a daily blog! Here is what happened yesterday:</p>
  <p>5.15 AM&nbsp;: Leap out of bed and plump myself in front of the beecam. Become enthralled.</p>
  <p>7.24 AM&nbsp;: Consider basic needs, such as washing and dressing and eating a hearty breakfast of kedgeree and bloaters and smokers’ poptarts, but am so overwhelmed by the beecam that I postpone any activity.</p>
  <p>11.45 AM&nbsp;: Bee-haunted.</p>
  <p>3.00 PM&nbsp;: Numb to the human world. Beginning to think like a bee. Making occasional buzzing noises.</p>
  <p>3.14 PM&nbsp;: Nip away from the beecam momentarily to don yellow-and-black striped leotard and black hat with antennae.</p>
  <p>7.52 PM&nbsp;: Recall that I planned to write something daily for the Hooting Yard page. Am too transfixed by the beecam to move.</p>
  <p>11.35 PM&nbsp;: Realise that I have spent the entire day observing either bees or the absence of bees on the beecam. Suffused with a warm glow of bee-ness. Continue to watch bees with now bleary eyes. Make a mental note to explain to readers that “bleary-eyed” has nothing to do with terrifying diminutive MP Hazel Blears.</p>
  <p>1.07 AM&nbsp;: Drag myself reluctantly from beecam to bed. As I fall asleep, reflect upon the fact that I have never had so bee-centred a day as the day just gone. Resolve to be even more bee-minded in future.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/330">[2008-01-04]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
