<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>It Has Been An Episode</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-334">It Has Been An Episode</h1>
  <p>In the post, a very nice letter from Brooklyn poet Gregory Vincent St Thomasino responding to the recording of <a href="http://podcasts.resonancefm.com/archives/877" class="external"><strong>Jubilate Agno</strong></a>:</p>
  <p><em>Dear Frank,</em></p>
  <p><em>Once again I thank you for bringing this reading/recording to my attention. It is simply extraordinary. It is excellent, it is historical. And if I may, I think it is remarkable the having a female voice in the response, this makes the listening easier, never monotonous (never wearisome!). The voices compliment and complement each other. Smart is my affinity, my kin. He is encyclopaedic. I sense so deeply his sense of isolation, I am so deeply moved by his sense of isolation and frustration. At the 1:56 time there begins the part “For I Will Consider My Cat Jeoffry” and at that pont I followed along in my text. This complete reading of Jubilate Agno has not only been a pleasure and an education for me, it has been an episode.</em></p>
  <p><em>Yours sincerely,</em></p>
  <p><em>Gregory</em></p>
  <p>The letter has also been posted on Mr St Thomasino's <a href="http://eratio.blogspot.com/" class="external"><strong>e-ratio postmodern poetry blog</strong></a>, where you will find a link to his own <a href="http://www.greatworks.org.uk/poems/gvst.html" class="external"><em><strong>Elegy For Christopher Smart</strong></em></a> amid much else.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
