<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>For Flute Accompaniment</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-481">For Flute Accompaniment</h1>
  <p>Bring me a cuppet of foaming grog! And bring me some rags to mop up the spillage! Bring me a lantern to light my way through the gruesome lanes of your gruesome village!</p>
  <p>Bring me gas trapped inside a bulb! Bring me a pig on a platter of lead! Bring me your huddled, bring me your sick, bring me your puny and bring me your dead!</p>
  <p>Bring me things I haven't asked for yet! Bring me a badger torn from its sett! Bring me creatures from the bottom of the sea twitching and flapping and flailing in nets!</p>
  <p>Bring me the kind of aftershave used by Peter Wyngarde playing Jason King! God blast you, bring me just about anything!</p>
  <p>There is nothing that I do not crave as I sit here in my cold damp cave, banished from the palace where I sat on a divan, the potentate of my vanquished clan. We were vanquished good and proper by the Men With Whisks. It was all recorded on compact discs. They even had a backing band as they smashed each bone and skull. I can't be sure, but I think it was Jethro Tull.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
