<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>September Song</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-2991">September Song</h1>
  <p><em>Kurt Weill and Maxwell Anderson wrote a</em> September Song. <em>But so did Dennis Beerpint, with music by Binder:</em></p>
  <p>Ho, boys, ho! It is September now, and we must do some marching across the muddy loam! From Pang Hill down to Blister Lane we'll march and sing and bawl, for we are Mister Pipkin's boys and we have got our sticks!</p>
  <p>We swing our sticks from left to right and sweep away dull care! For now it is September and we march right past the pond. All the ducks are in the pond, doing what ducks do, and we are Mister Pipkin's boys in our inelegant boots!</p>
  <p>When we get to Blister Lane we'll turn upon a coin, it might be a florin with embossings of a king. But we care not for kings or queens or Stalin with his pocks. We only care for Pipkin and his ukase that we march!</p>
  <p>The whole month of September back and forth you'll watch us march! And you'll be kept behind a fence so you don't hinder us. The fence is of barbed wire and electric to the touch. But you can buy a choc ice from the kiosk in the field!</p>
  <p>Ho, boys, ho! We'll chuck our sticks aloft! And then we'll catch them as they drop and swing them once again! Mister Pipkin and his wife will come to watch us march! They'll sit in deckchairs by the pond and clap us as we pass!</p>
  <p>And when we're strafed by fighter jets we'll sit in the mud and cry! We'll sob our little hearts out and fill the pond with tears! It's the same every September, according to the stats. They're kept by Mister Pipkin in his creamy vellum book.</p>
  <p>Ho, boys, ho! That is quite enough! Dennis Beerpint wrote this song for us to roar aloud! But Mister Pipkin is stone deaf and doesn't hear a word. So we will march in silence and we'll throw away our sticks.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
