<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>A Shuddering Miasma Of Crepitant Dread</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-2387">A Shuddering Miasma Of Crepitant Dread</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Listeners to <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em> will be aware of my boundless admiration for the pulp writer Hal K Wells. Many's the time I have read out on the show one particular quotation from his story <em>Black Pool For Hell Maidens</em>, to wit:</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  <p><em>Carlin's deep-shadowed eyes were flaming pools of mad menace.</em></p>
  <p><em>“I could shoot you both down where you stand,” he rasped, “but that would be a foolish waste of valuable material… I shall turn the two of you over to the Dweller in the pool!”</em></p>
  <p><em>&nbsp;</em><em>Dorothy Lane</em> <em>cried aloud in terror. Carlin's thin lips writhed in a snarling smile…</em></p>
  <p><em>“Who, or what, is the Dweller in the pool?” demanded</em> <em>Kent</em><em>, “And what devil's work is Carlin doing here anyway?”</em></p>
  <p><em>“The Dweller in the pool,” Dorothy answered, her low voice trembling, “is my brother, Raoul!” …</em></p>
  <p><em>Small wonder that the throbbing agony of so many tortured minds should combine to taint the very air with a shuddering miasma of crepitant dread!</em></p>
  <p>That “My brother, Raoul!” gets me every time.</p>
  <p>I am pleased to report, via <em><strong><a href="http://www.logiston.com/oddends/" class="external">Odd Ends</a></strong></em>, that another Wells story has been added at Project Gutenberg. In <em><strong><a href="http://www.gutenberg.org/files/28628/28628-h/28628-h.htm" class="external">Devil Crystals Of Arret</a></strong></em>, young Larry faces a six-hour deadline of death, plus rat-men, octopus-bats, eldritch music and tinkling devil crystals! So alluring is the prospect of wallowing in a Wellsian miasma, I have had to put on hold my plan to read the umpteen volumes of John Ruskin's <em>Fors Clavigera&nbsp;: Letters To The Workmen And Labourers Of Great Britain</em>, a work Guy Davenport suggested is comparable only to <em>Tristram Shandy</em> in its magnificent eccentricity.</p>
  <p><em>The Sun</em> newspaper—yes, <em>The Sun</em>!—once commanded its readers “Go thee to H P Lovecraft and shudder!” Excellent advice, you'll agree, and I would like to echo it by recommending you do the same with Hal K Wells. A few more of his tales are available online <strong><a href="http://www.munseys.com/detail/mode/author/Hal_K_Wells" class="external">here</a></strong>.</p>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
  
</body>
</html>
