<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Invalid</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3236">Invalid</h1>
  <p>I am occasionally cajoled by well-meaning friends and readers to submit stories to one of the legion of online literary magazines. I never do. No doubt, were one of my pieces accepted, I would gain a marginal increase in readership, but for some reason the idea of spreading like a rash over the interweb doesn't appeal. I think, too, there are elements of diffidence and fastidiousness which make me reluctant to seek editorial approval. Sheer idleness also plays its part, for I am happy enough to allow publication on the rare occasions when an editor approaches me, rather than vice versa.</p>
  <p>This solipsistic drivel was prompted when I was pointed towards <em><strong><a href="http://viewfromhere-aboutus.blogspot.com/" class="external">The View From Here</a></strong></em>. One's first port of call is invariably the “about us” or “guidelines for submissions” bit. Now, I take an excessively judgmental approach to these things. Is this, I ask myself, the kind of website whose imprimatur I would value? Here is what <em>The View From Here</em> has to say for itself:</p>
  <p><em>… we showcase the weird, unusual, thought provoking and occasionally bizarre. We classify ourselves as “Bohemian Eclectic” — yes, we coined the term. Our stories will make you wonder, laugh, cry and generally FEEL something. We expect to elicit a valid emotional response from our readers.</em></p>
  <p>I make no comment on “Bohemian Eclectic” nor on that peremptory use of the upper case. But I can't help wondering what on earth is meant by a “valid” emotional response. Here at Hooting Yard, we hope for an <em>invalid</em> response, where <em>invalid</em> is a noun, with the stress on the first syllable. A correct invalid response is the fey mopping of one's brow, the call for a bowl of pap and slops in a weak and reedy voice, the groaning of the withered as a poultice or mustard plaster is applied to one's pustules and buboes. Reading while shakily downing a draught of Doctor Baxter's Invigorating Nerve Syrup is also encouraged.</p>
  <p><strong>NOTE&nbsp;:</strong> I should point out that <em>The View From Here</em> is by no means alone in announcing itself in terms which find little favour with Mr Key. There are much worse examples littered around the interweb.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
