<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>King Wamba</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-1654">King Wamba</h1>
  <p class="noindent">A letter arrives from OutaSpaceman:</p>
  <p>Dear Frank, I have been doing a bit of research into Barbaric tribes* and found this paragraph (relating to the Visigoths) on the <a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2/A27875668" class="external">hhg2g</a> site:</p>
  <p><em>“There was still time for one last Gothic comedy. The panicking King Wamba called up priests to the army to prepare for a full-scale Moorish invasion, but the newly armed priests threw their lot in with a group of revolutionary nobles. In what must be one of the most bizarre coups of all time, Wamba was drugged and dressed as a monk. The rebels also shaved his head, because to the Visigoths long hair was a symbol of sovereignty. The embarrassed king stood aside for the rebel leader Ervigius. Then, when Ervigius' grandson Witiza died, a brief civil war of succession put King Roderick on the throne in 710 in place of Witiza's son, Achila. It was an inauspicious year for the Visigoths.”</em></p>
  <p>Oh, to be ruled by Panicking King Wamba…</p>
  <p>Yours, OutaSpaceman</p>
  <p>*This is considered to be the finest opening line of any letter Mr Key has ever received.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/1654">[2009-02-05]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
