<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Further Adventures Of Little Ruskin</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-2776">Further Adventures Of Little Ruskin</h1>
  <p>See, children, this couple walking along the road. One is a tall, handsome, and very finely made woman, with a beautiful mild firmness of expression, the other a conceited little boy. Why, of course, it is Ma Ruskin taking a stroll with Little Ruskin. They walk straight past the toyshop window without a glance. Little Ruskin knows he will never be allowed the temptation of toys. But Ma Ruskin has promised to take him to a spot, somewhere between Herne Hill and Camberwell, where he may pick a pebble to take home with him. Little Ruskin loves his pebbles.</p>
  <p>As they turn a corner, Little Ruskin's buoyant mood changes, however, for ahead of them loom the great granite walls of the Charitable Mercy Home For Crippled Tinies.</p>
  <p>“Can we increase the speed of our strolling, Ma, the quicker to be past this benighted cripplehaven?” pleads Little Ruskin.</p>
  <p>“We shall stroll at the pace the Lord intends,” replies Ma Ruskin, not unkindly, but with her usual mild firmness.</p>
  <p>Little Ruskin begins to tremble.</p>
  <p>And then, children, out of the gates of the Mercy Home comes Little Ruskin's worst nightmare! It is a diminutive girlie with a twisted, deformed spine, and her hair is in ringlets!</p>
  <p>“Aaaghh!” screeches Little Ruskin, shielding his eyes from the horrible sight and trying to hide himself in the folds of Ma Ruskin's skirts.</p>
  <p>Ma Ruskin scolds her son for making such a din and a spectacle, and she turns him about and marches him home.</p>
  <p>“There will be no pebble for you today, Little Ruskin!” she says, mildly firm.</p>
  <p>And so, quaking with a mixture of disgust and horror, Little Ruskin ends up back at the house on the hill, forbidden even to jump off his favourite box.</p>
  <p><em>Further reading&nbsp;:</em> Praeterita, <em>Volume I, Chapter V, <strong><a href="http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=Y4FiVZYdtLsC&amp;lpg=RA1-PA211&amp;ots=mhdKgDuz6A&amp;dq=ruskin%2Bpraeterita&amp;pg=PA75#v=onepage&amp;q=&amp;f=false" class="external">here</a></strong>.</em></p>
  
</body>
</html>
