<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Bix Bei Der Bec Ke</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Bix Bei Der Bec Ke</h1>
  <p>Those of you who enjoyed listening to Norm Sherman's reading of <em><strong><a href="2008-11-21-hooting-usa.xhtml" class="internal" title="Hooting USA">“Far, Far Away”</a></strong></em> will be pleased to hear that this week's featured story on his <strong><a href="http://web.mac.com/normsherman/Site/Podcast/Entries/2009/3/11_Drabblecast_106-_Boiled_Black_Broth_and_Cornetts.html" class="external">Drabblecas</a></strong><strong><a href="http://web.mac.com/normsherman/Site/Podcast/Entries/2009/3/11_Drabblecast_106-_Boiled_Black_Broth_and_Cornetts.html" class="external">t</a></strong> podcast is <em><strong><a href="2009-01-30-boiled-black-broth-and-cornets.xhtml" class="internal" title="Boiled Black Broth And Cornets">“Boiled Black Broth And Cornets”</a></strong></em>. Once again, his approach to the telling of the tale is wildly at variance with my own<strong>*</strong>. Actually, I haven't yet read this piece on the radio, but when I do, it will sound completely different. I am very fond of Norm's treatment, he somehow makes my words much spookier than I thought they were.</p>
  <p>In the preamble, Norm mentions that he has just bought a copy of <em>Gravitas, Punctilio, Rectitude &amp; Pippy Bags</em>. He's obviously a very sensible man. If you haven't yet purchased your own copy, do so <strong><a href="http://www.lulu.com/content/3540280" class="external">now</a></strong>.&nbsp;</p>
  <p><strong>* UPDATE&nbsp;:</strong> In a comment on the Drabblecast <strong><a href="http://drabblecast.freeforums.org/drabblecast-106-boiled-black-broth-and-cornets-by-frank-key-t387.html" class="external">discussion forum</a></strong>, listener “tbaker2500” concurs: “Whilst listening to the story, I also heard in my head how Frank would read it. Two entirely different beasts. Frank always sounds so indifferent, Norm so earnest. ” Hmm… “indifferent”? An interesting choice of word. I think it may be the <em>mot juste</em>.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
