<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Holy Lives, Happy Deaths</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-1868">Holy Lives, Happy Deaths</h1>
  <p class="noindent"><em>If time moved backwards, Hannah More (1745–1833) could have been the offspring of Dobson and Prudence Foxglove:</em></p>
  <p>She helped to initiate a line of publications called Cheap Repository Tracts. These were inexpensive chapbooks—softcover books of four to twenty-four pages that often were illustrated with woodcuts. More embarked on this project, which she said “barely leaves me time to eat”, because she was disturbed that contemporary chapbooks were secular works that often were ribald. She told Hester Piozzi that “30,000 Hawkers are maintain'd by this dissolute Traffic, and Boat loads of it [chapbooks] are sent away from the Trading Towns to infect the villages”. She wanted to circulate “Religious and Useful Knowledge as an antidote to the poison continually flowing thro’ the channel of vulgar and licentious publications”.</p>
  <p>The “religious and useful knowledge” would be contained in short stories about “Striking Conversions, Holy Lives, Happy Deaths, Providential Deliverances, Judgements on the Breakers of Commandments, Stories of Good and Wicked Apprentices, Hardened Sinners, Pious Servants &amp;c”. More wrote many tracts herself (they were published anonymously but those marked <em>Z</em> were written by her). The tracts are well written and often describe accurately the lives of the rural poor, but they always have a predictable ending. According to Anne Stott, More's biographer, “everything always turns out for the best provided one goes to church and keeps the sabbath”.</p>
  <p>From <em><strong><a href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2008/dec/27/peculiar-life-of-sundays" class="external">The Peculiar Life Of Sundays</a></strong></em> by Stephen Miller</p>
  
</body>
</html>
