<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Impugned By Further Peasants</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3104">Impugned By Further Peasants</h1>
  <p>Time to catch up with some of the expected fallout from last Thursday's <strong><a href="2009-09-10-impugned-by-a-peasant.xhtml" class="internal" title="Impugned By A Peasant">Impugned By A Peasant</a></strong>. Over at <strong><em><a href="http://thinkofengland.blogspot.com/2009/09/impugned-by-blanket.html" class="external">Think Of England</a></em></strong>, Brit provided a link to what he called &nbsp;“a terrifying tale”, prompting this response from Peter Burnet:</p>
  <p><em>Bah! Bloody Euros! No wonder you're in terminal decline. You get impugned by a peasant and you go all artsy-fartsy and spin it into an meandering tale of cravats, bouffants and existential turmoil. Want to know how we in the</em> <em>New World</em> <em>handle that kind of stuff? Just check out the economical prologue to Dan Brown's new novel:</em></p>
  <p><em>“I was once impugned by a peasant, so I shot him. It haunted me until dinnertime.”</em></p>
  <p>Meanwhile, at the weekend, I had a dream in which I was impugned by a sort of seaside variety of peasant. I was sitting in a dockside cafeteria, drinking coffee with a couple of friends I have not actually seen for a decade or so. We watched as various animals disembarked from a steamship. I pointed to one, and said excitedly:</p>
  <p>“Look, half a cow with no head!”</p>
  <p>That is indeed what I saw. Sitting alongside us in the cafeteria was a bunch of seaside-type peasants, one of whom chortled and shouted:</p>
  <p>“It's a big chicken, you fool!”</p>
  <p>Thus was I impugned, in my dream.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
