<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The World Trend</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-2853">The World Trend</h1>
  <p class="noindent">There are difficult days, like today, when I awake in the grip of the fever. My ablutions are performed hurriedly, as if there is no time to waste, even though it is still before dawn. If I can face breakfast, I bolt it, like a half-starved squirrel alighting upon a single discarded nut on the lawn of a municipal park. I pace up and down, disconsolate, muttering, eyes popping, my hair dishevelled and with beetles falling from it. I wander through the chartered streets and see in every face I meet signs of the same restlessness, signs of the same phrenzy. Aimless and distracted I return home. My limbs are aquiver but I snap them to stillness and manage to make a pot of tea. I turn on the kitchen radio and tune in to <strong><em><a href="http://innocentpastimes.blogspot.com/2009/08/hooting-yard-lost-property-mighty.html" class="external">Tugboat Crew Playtime</a></em></strong>, hoping the tunes will soothe my brain. I feel as if there is a nest of vipers squirming in my vitals, but eventually I gather. I gather. And I walk as boldly as I can across the hall and push open the living room door and I look down…</p>
  <p>And of course, it is fine. It is perfectly serviceable. A tad worn in places, a faded stain here or there, but nothing I cannot cope with. And thus does my <strong><a href="2009-08-12-the-world-trend.xhtml" class="internal" title="A Note On Rugs">carpet madness</a></strong> evaporate, and I am human again, no longer a demented thing.</p>
  <p>I had resigned myself to these periodic attacks, but now it seems help is at hand. If my carpet madness gets worse, there is a remedy. According to the North Korean Central News Agency,</p>
  <p><em>Products of the</em> <em>Pyongyang</em> <em>Carpet Factory are drawing interests of many people at home and abroad.</em></p>
  <p><em>The factory, with a long history of carpet production, is producing various kinds of hand-woven carpet, machine-woven carpet and others to suit the world trend.</em></p>
  <p><em>It is located in Sosong District of</em> <em>Pyongyang</em><em>.</em></p>
  <p><em>Pak Won Chol, director of the factory, said in an interview with KCNA to the following effect: The factory is making silk carpet good for health and longevity which the Korean ancestors had long used and wool carpet giving comfortable feeling.</em></p>
  <p>A doctor once told me he thought my own “episodes” of carpet madness were brought on by a neurotic terror that my carpet did not suit the world trend. If that is indeed the cause, then I now know how to conquer the bonkersness once and for all.</p>
  <p>Thanks to <strong><a href="http://mickhartley.typepad.com/blog/2009/08/wellreceived-carpets.html" class="external">Mick Hartley</a></strong> for the link.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/2853">[2009-08-12]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
