<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Perfectly Sane Voodoo Zombies</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Perfectly Sane Voodoo Zombies</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I don't want to get into unspeakable navel-gazing, but cannot let slip one of the comments on the <strong><a href="2009-03-12-bix-bei-der-bec-ke.xhtml" class="internal" title="Bix Bei Der Bec Ke">Drabblecast</a></strong><strong>*</strong> reading of <em>Boiled Black Broth And Cornets</em>. One of the pleasures of having stories read there—apart from the fact that I was paid thirteen quid for this one—is the nature of some of the contributions to the <strong><a href="http://drabblecast.freeforums.org/drabblecast-106-boiled-black-broth-and-cornets-by-frank-key-t387.html" class="external">discussion forum</a></strong>. The audience is, I suspect, at something of a tangent to the Hooting Yard listenership.</p>
  <p>Consider this, from “delfedd”: “<em>What the bleep happened in that story? I got the voodoo zombie part. But why did she go absolutely insane?</em>” Perhaps I am reading it wrong, but “delfedd” appears to be suggesting that to ply your friends with voodoo zombie soup is perfectly normal behaviour. Only later does Becke Beiderbix go “completely insane”. I find this quite a worrying attitude, the more so because “delfedd”'s location is given as “Everywhere”, meaning that s/he could barge in through my door at any moment, in full voodoo zombie mode.</p>
  <p><strong>* NOTE&nbsp;:</strong> Incidentally, I have been wondering what the connection is between Norm Sherman's podcast and our own dear Margaret Drabble. And does he have plans to launch another podcast named after her sister A S Byatt?</p>
  
</body>
</html>
