<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Timetable</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-2259">Timetable</h1>
  <p>05.30 Awaken and ablute.</p>
  <p>06.00 Breakfast upon bloaters.</p>
  <p>06.35 Ponder the pariah status of the Pyrenean Cagots, forced to enter churches through a low door, obliging them to stoop almost to the ground as a perpetual memento of their degradation.</p>
  <p>07.45 Paint side of van.</p>
  <p>08.45 Take tablets and swill down with milk ‘n’ vinegar mixture.</p>
  <p>08.46 Conduct preliminary egg count.</p>
  <p>09.00 Listen to “Timetable” by Henry Cowell.</p>
  <p>09.03 Impugn crusties.</p>
  <p>10.00 Attend goat sacrifice. Stand at the back.</p>
  <p>12.30 Rub cutlery in desultory fashion with rags and swarfega and align upon a countertop.</p>
  <p>13.00 Burn waxen effigy.</p>
  <p>13.30 Nap.</p>
  <p>17.00 Accept blandishments from a Cagot.</p>
  <p>17.07 Topple from plinth.</p>
  <p>17.08 Prepare rhubarb.</p>
  <p>17.30 Write notes upon the golden and black striped roofing material of the covered dinghies made by the defunct Dutch dinghy makers Van Der Dax Covered Dinghies N.V.</p>
  <p>19.00 Channel Four News with Krishnan Guru-Murthy.</p>
  <p>20.00 Lighting up time for the Toc H lamps.</p>
  <p>20.30 Throw rhubarb to the cows.</p>
  <p>20.45 Attend glittering soirée. Cause rumpus. Steal decoy duck.</p>
  <p>22.00 Check cows and patches of regurgitated rhubarb.</p>
  <p>22.45 Ablute and sleep.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
