<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Papist Mountain Apothecary</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3100">Papist Mountain Apothecary</h1>
  <p>The mountain apothecary with his bag so black. Is it a bag or is it a sack? He heaves it up the mountain on his back. It is full of pills and potions.</p>
  <p>But no one lives upon this peak. So as he climbs who does he seek? Ah, look, a goat, a goat so weak. He'll pamper it with his lotions.</p>
  <p>The mountain apothecary is no vet. The weakened goat's our hero's pet. He trapped it once, within a net. But now it roams the slopes.</p>
  <p>The air is thin when one's so high. The goat is weak and it may die. The apothecary wears a Catholic tie. He's treated several Popes.</p>
  <p>A Papist apothecary, do you say? On the mountain this very day? I would drown him in the bay, for I say he's a sinner.</p>
  <p>Aye, a sinner and a heretic! Evil is what makes him tick. Almighty God, he makes me sick. I'll vomit up my dinner.</p>
  <p>I ate in the chalet at the foot of the mount. Me and a baron and a Protestant count. Oh we ate a huge amount, of mountain goat and hog.</p>
  <p>See the apothecary come back down. He's taking his goat into the town, where there's a vet of great renown. I'll shove him into the bog.</p>
  <p>“Papist Apothecary Drowned In Bog”, the headline in my Daily Log. Now I'll march off into the fog, and vanish whence I came.</p>
  <p>I came from haunts of coot and hern. There I watch the Papists burn. Repent! Before it is your turn, and shudder at my name.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
