<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Curst To Starve In Frogland Fens</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Curst To Starve In Frogland Fens</h1>
  <p class="noindent">So there I was, thinking that in <strong><a href="2010-07-30-anathema.xhtml" class="internal" title="Anathema">Austin Osman Spare</a></strong> I had found my go-to guy for curses, imprecations and anathemas. That was until I came upon the Scots poet Allan Ramsay (1686–1758), of whom I was only dimly aware.</p>
  <p>What happened was this. It occurred to me this afternoon that it was a matter of utmost urgency that I discover the etymology of “frogman”, specifically whether, at any point, the word “toadman” had been preferred. As always happens as soon as one consults the <em>Oxford English Dictionary</em>, I was blown off course. My attention was caught by “frogland”, which is defined, not unexpectedly, as “marshy land in which frogs abound, as the Fens, Holland, etc.” The first of a mere two citations in the <em>OED</em> is “<strong>1721</strong> RAMSAY <em>Tartana xxxiii</em>, May she be curst to starve in frogland fens.”</p>
  <p>My curiosity was piqued. Who was she and what had she done to deserve so awful a fate? I soon found an online edition of Allan Ramsay's <em>Poems</em> of 1721 and read:</p>
  <p><em>May she be curst to starve in Frogland Fens, / To wear a Fala ragg'd at both the Ends, / Groan still beneath an antiquated Suit, / And die a Maid at fifty five to boot ; / May she turn quaggy Fat, or crooked Dwarff, / Be ridicul'd while primm'd up in her Scarff ; / May Spleen and Spite still keep her on the Fret, / And live till she outlive her Beauty's Date ; / May all this fall, and more than I have said, / Upon that wench who disregards the Plaid.</em></p>
  <p>Gosh. This strikes me as a somewhat hysterical overreaction to someone eschewing the wearing of tartan, but then I am not a mad Scotsman, so what do I know?</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/4906">[2010-08-01]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
