<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Six Long Years Of Wittering ‘n’ Babble</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-4266">Six Long Years Of Wittering ‘n’ Babble</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Those of you familiar with the important Hooting Yard <strong><a href="2010-04-14-six-long-years-of-wittering-n-babble.xhtml" class="internal" title="Book O’ Days">Book o’ Days</a></strong> will know that precisely six years ago today, the very first episode of <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em> was broadcast on <strong><a href="http://resonancefm.com/archives/3537" class="external">ResonanceFM</a></strong>. I will be celebrating by drinking a flask of aerated lettucewater and sacrificing a (vegan, marzipan) goat.</p>
  <p>Once upon a time, of course, radio shows were fugitive, ephemeral things, but today, with the wonders of podcasting, untold hours of Mr Key's babbling remain available for you to download from the ResonanceFM <strong><a href="http://podcasts.resonancefm.com/archives/category/shows/hooting" class="external">archive</a></strong>. Apparently, thousands of people do, certainly more than ever read this blog.</p>
  <p>This seems as good a time as any, then, to note that a new podcast maestro has taken over the reins, whose self-appointed task is to increase the frequency of releases. Past programmes have been issued as podcasts generally about once a fortnight, but the plan now is for them to appear twice a week, until the backlog is cleared.</p>
  <p>For an insight into the tremendous technical challenges of the process, I refer you to <strong><a href="http://www.hootingyard.org/archive/feb06.htm#2006-02-25-1" class="hootingyard">this piece</a></strong> from the 2006 archives. Little has changed, save perhaps for the metal from which the maestro's hat has been welded.</p>
  <p>My thanks are due to the podcast maestro and his predecessors, and you can make their dedication to this noble cause worthwhile by <strong><a href="http://feeds.feedburner.com/hootingyard" class="external">subscribing</a></strong>, downloading, and listening, for so long and so often that Mr Key's voice haunts your dreams. And please remember that the very existence of ResonanceFM is a fragile and rickety thing, and your <strong><a href="http://resonancefm.com/support" class="external">donations</a></strong> to the station will help it to survive.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/4266">[2010-04-14]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
