<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Chums In Khaki</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3905">Chums In Khaki</h1>
  <p class="noindent">“The first volume in the series, <em>The Boy Scouts of the Eagle Patrol</em>, was necessarily confined to the activities of the young organization; but Rob and his mates met and overcame many difficulties that are well worth reading about.</p>
  <p>“In the second volume, <em>The Boy Scouts on the Range</em>, were recounted a series of strange adventures that befell some of the Eagles during a visit to the Far Southwest, where they took part in the wild life of a cattle ranch.</p>
  <p>“Through the pages of <em>The Boy Scouts and the Army Airship</em> the reader will find that Rob and his comrades always bore themselves manfully, no matter the emergency; and that they scrupulously observed ‘scout law’ under any and every occasion, as every true wearer of the khaki makes it a point to do.</p>
  <p>“After this, followed an account of many remarkable happenings that befell the Eagles when under canvas. <em>The Boy Scouts’ Mountain Camp</em> has deservedly been reckoned one of the very best scout books ever published for boys, and those who own a copy are likely to read it many times.</p>
  <p>“Once more, chance allowed some of the leading characters in the Hampton Troop to come in touch with Government officers who were experimenting with a wonderfully designed submarine. It happened that Rob and his friends were enabled to assist Uncle Sam's agents in defeating the plans of foreign spies who tried to steal the design of the new invention. In the pages of <em>The Boy Scouts for Uncle Sam</em> are recorded the adventures that accompanied their service, as well as mention of the reward following their victory.</p>
  <p>“It was a happy chance that allowed some of the boys to pay a visit to the then uncompleted Panama Canal. While in the Canal Zone they again demonstrated that they were always wide-awake and devoted to the service of their country. Much useful information will also be found between the covers of this volume, called <em>The Boy Scouts at the Panama Canal</em>.</p>
  <p>“Once more, Rob and several of his close adherents were unexpectedly allowed to take a trip. Andy Bowles, the bugler of the troop, had an uncle who owned a cattle ranch down in Chihuahua, in Mexico. He was sick, and unable to go down himself to dispose of the stock before the fighting forces of rebels and Federals drove the herds away. Accordingly, he sent his nephew and several of his chums to seek General Villa, whom he had once befriended, and gain his assistance in selling the valuable stock. The wonderful things they saw, and the peculiar adventures that came their way, have all been described in the seventh volume, just preceding this, under the title of <em>The Boy Scouts Under Fire in Mexico</em>.</p>
  <p>“That, telling briefly some of the remarkable things that happened in their career as Boy Scouts, will have to suffice to introduce Rob and his two chums to the reader.”</p>
  <p>From <em>The Boy Scouts On Belgian Battlefields</em> by Lieutenant Howard Payson (1915)</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/3905">[2010-02-13]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
