<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lupins?</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-4881">Lupins?</h1>
  <p>Discouraging news reaches me about Dennis Beerpint. The weedy poet has, it seems, cast off his beatnik persona. In an interview with the magazine <em>Ex-Beatnik Poets Speak Out!</em> he says:</p>
  <p>“People will accuse me of selling out, but quite frankly I am sick and tired of sticking it to The Man, you dig? There's no money in it. I want to be a people's poet, like Carol Ann Duffy or Ian McMillan, but I am neither the Poet Laureate nor an irritating professional northerner. So when the Co-op offered me the position of surrealist-in-residence, I jumped at the chance.”</p>
  <p>“Surreal” is a much-abused word these days, but it is surely appropriate to describe Beerpint's first effort on the Co-op's behalf. He was asked to add an intriguingly madcap line to the allergy advice on their jam doughnuts, and came up with this corker:</p>
  <p><em>These products have been prepared in an area that handles the following ingredients: Celery, Crustaceans, Fish, Lupins and Molluscs.</em></p>
  <p>Clearly, though he may indeed have “sold out”, Dennis Beerpint has not lost his mojo.</p>
  <p><strong>NOTE&nbsp;:</strong> Many thanks to <strong><a href="http://gawragbag.blogspot.com/2010/07/allergy-advice.html" class="external">Gaw</a></strong> for drawing this to my attention.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
