<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Nature Notes</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5148">Nature Notes</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Another thing I found when <strong><a href="2010-08-30-nature-notes.xhtml" class="internal" title="Graveyard Anecdote, With Nuns">fossicking in that cupboard</a></strong> was a scrap of paper on which was scribbled the following:</p>
  <p>11 Petiver, Buddle &amp; Doody. 48 Withering. 53 Rousseau's wife. 56 Huttonian theory. 63/64 Buckland. 76 Robert Dick—biscuit. 77/78 McGillivray's journey. 80 Philip Gosse diary entry. 82 Buckland concealed hammer on the Sabbath. 129 Discovery of plankton.</p>
  <p>Deploying my Holmesian deductive skills, I worked out that these were notes I had made, long ago, when reading <em>The Naturalist In Britain&nbsp;: A Social History</em> by David Elliston Allen (1976). Seeking enlightenment, I located the volume on the teetering bookshelves, and turned to the relevant pages. In some cases, it is no longer clear to me what sparked my interest. Others, however, I was extremely pleased to be reminded of. Here are the relevant quotes:</p>
  <p>“Rousseau's extreme short-sight was such that at the best of times he saw the landscape as a blur, while his wife, in similar fashion, never knew which day of the week it was and never even learned to tell the time.”</p>
  <p>“In many ways [Buckland] was undeniably a very curious person: an oddly truncated man… He sported childish jests and puns, devised peculiar contraptions, went in for the weirdest kinds of food… It was typical of him that he drove round in a special kind of carriage, strengthened in an ostentatious manner… he carried around a mysterious blue bag… he led his students on excursions into the field wearing quite incongruously formal clothes.”</p>
  <p>“Robert Dick… ‘the Botanist of Thurso’ made it his regular practice to walk all day, for up to forty miles, with one ship's biscuit as his only sustenance.”</p>
  <p>“Philip Henry Gosse became so lost in his work that he registered the birth of his only child with the remarkable entry in his diary: ‘Received green swallow from Jamaica. E delivered of a son.'”</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/5148">[2010-08-30]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
