<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Reading And Listing (And Quiz Question)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-4919">Reading And Listing (And Quiz Question)</h1>
  <p>The splendid <strong><a href="http://wartimehousewife.wordpress.com/2010/08/02/reading-room/" class="external">Wartime Housewife</a></strong> has a potsage<strong>*</strong> about her reading life, in which she notes that “if I stopped reading, I would feel that I had completely lost control of my life and my sense of self”, a sentiment with which I'd concur. (“Melodramatic, I know” she adds, but, ah!, where would we be without a leavening of melodrama?)</p>
  <p>What surprised me was for one so bookish to state that it was only in the last couple of years she began to keep a record of the books she reads. From the time I began reading books—as opposed to <em>The Beano</em> and <em>Wham!</em>—it never occurred to me <em>not</em> to keep a list. Alas, somewhere along the line the first few years' of my records were lost, but I have a note of every book I have read since 1982. (Which year began, since you ask, with <em>The Annotated Snark</em> by Martin Gardner.)</p>
  <p>It is not often I browse back over the list—now maintained, of course, on what Dr Alan Statham at one point calls a “compyoodah”—but when I do I am struck by two things in particular. There are the books of which I retain no memory whatsoever, and could thus reread as if for the first time, and there are the ones which, even if ill-remembered, summon for me the time and the place they were read with astonishing clarity. (Why do I recall so vividly, for example, that I read the bulk of <em>The Tax Inspector</em> by Peter Carey sitting by a lake, to the sound of birdsong? I remember the setting, but almost nothing of the novel.)</p>
  <p>Of late, visitors to Hooting Yard could probably piece together what I've been reading, day by day and week by week. There's something to keep you occupied when you find yourselves at a loose end.</p>
  <p><strong>*NOTE&nbsp;:</strong> This is a deliberate error. It is a clue to a book which appears more than once on my twenty-eight-year reading list. But which book?</p>
  
</body>
</html>
