<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Huad Jardo</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Huad Jardo</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Those of you who have been following the comments under <strong><a href="2010-01-02-birdo.xhtml" class="internal" title="Birdo">Birdo</a></strong> will be aware of kerfuffle. Brit points out that representatives of the Esperantists' militant wing tirelessly patrol Blogshire and weigh in wherever they feel Dr L L Zamenhof's artificial language has been in any way traduced. Mr Wellington, on the other hand, suggests translating some Hooting Yard texts into Esperanto to see if they are thereby improved.</p>
  <p>Mr Key's Esperantoglot pal Wolfgang Glot has come up trumps (or rather, trumpos) and dashed off this “Huad Jardo” paragraph, the opening of <strong><a href="2010-01-04-a-tip-from-a-shaman.xhtml" class="internal" title="A Tip From A Shaman">A Tip From A Shaman</a></strong>, or&nbsp;<strong><a href="2010-01-04-a-tip-from-a-shaman.xhtml" class="internal" title="A Tip From A Shaman">Pinto El Xamano</a></strong>, as we had better learn to call it.</p>
  <p>“Estis pensigite al mi, de antawurba xamano, ke mi devos prezenti de mia persono, kiel parto de, mia falsas la plumaro de hoopoe. Ke ĉi tio ne estas antaŭe okazinta al mi, estis nenia dubo, ke pro aparta manko de shamanic konsiloj en mia vivo supren al tio direktas. Mi irus ĝis nun kiel diri, ke mi havis aktive, pooh-pooha manifestadojn de la mistika ĉu en la formo de shamen sorqistoj, magiistoj la blinda plej see kies tendo estis starigita de la flanko de monto aŭ vojeto, kiu pasis pretere, mia chalet.”</p>
  <p>Future episodes of <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em> on ResonanceFM may be conducted entirely in Esperanto… although, of course, that may enrage fanatical devotees of rival artificial language Glosa. What a quandary! (Or quandaryo!)</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/3616">[2010-01-04]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
