<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>A Purblind Ultra-Crepidarian</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5005">A Purblind Ultra-Crepidarian</h1>
  <p>McCready's friend, Walker, was not the only <strong><a href="2010-08-10-the-fatal-dowry.xhtml" class="internal" title="The Fatal Dowry">purblind ultra-crepidarian</a></strong> cobbling plays on the theatrical stage two hundred years ago. There were others, none more energetic than producer, director, actor, playwright, stage manager, impresario, dramaturge, and scene-shifter Jarvis Greasecollar. Damn near forgotten today, for the first two decades of the nineteenth century, he had, in George Bernard Shaw's words, “the advantage of a celebrity that is not idolatry and a regard that is untainted by a secret abhorrence of the angry ape posing as a god”, (although Shaw was writing about somebody else).</p>
  <p>Greasecollar made his name with the production, in a crumbling theatre in a seaside town, of <em>The Thick Fog</em>, a one-act play he probably wrote himself, although some claim it to be an adaptation of a <em>jeu d'esprit</em> by Swausage. He followed it, at another crumbling theatre in another seaside town, with <em>The Impenetrable Mist</em>, this time a two-act play adapted, certainly, from one of Swausage's <em>opera bouffes</em>. Critics from the capital city, hearing of the unprecedented enthusiasm of seaside theatregoers, flocked to the coast to see for themselves. “Seldom has so purblind an ultra-crepidarian cobbled such a play at the seaside!” crowed the (anonymous) critic of <em>The Weekly Starling</em>.</p>
  <p>Showered with offers to open his next production at big important theatres in the capital, Greasecollar declined, and moved further along the coast. In a theatre so crumbled that it was open to the elements, he unveiled <em>Oh! Tenebrous Gloom</em>, a three-act play with a cast of hundreds. It opens with the memorable lines “Cold-hearted orb that rules the night / Removes the colours from our sight / Red is grey and yellow white / But we decide which is right / And which is an illusion”, a declaration that was to inspire fey long-haired airheads a century and a half later.</p>
  <p>Following this triumph, Greasecollar was given a knighthood and married his leading lady, Edith Sebag, herself no mean ultra-crepidarian, though she was never purblind. She collaborated with him on several later plays, including <em>The Foul Blizzard</em>, <em>Chasm Of Death</em>, <em>The Little Incey-Wincey Bunny Rabbits</em>, and <em>Croaks From A Plague Pit</em>.</p>
  <p>In 1821, for unfathomable reasons, Jarvis Greasecollar's star waned, and not a theatre in the land would stage, nor cobble, one of his productions. He fell out with Swausage, endured a mysterious calamity in yet another seaside town, and his wife ran off with a dapper gentleman of foreign extraction. Years later, she was to play a shadowy role&nbsp;as a counter-revolutionary&nbsp;in the revolutionary turmoil that engulfed a continent.</p>
  <p>In 1837, by now in quite a disgusting state, Greasecollar was found sprawled on a pebbly beach howling at the cold-hearted orb… sorry, at the moon. He was carted off to an asylum, where he died at the advanced age of one-hundred-and-twenty-two on the day of Queen Victoria's funeral in 1901. A purblind ultra-crepidarian to the last, he toppled from his earthly socket into the dust. He left behind an unfinished manuscript, his final play, <em>Toppling Into The Dust</em>. It has never been performed, nor cobbled, nor even read.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
