<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Excerpt</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3673">Excerpt</h1>
  <p><em>This is an excerpt from something—a list of instructions?—but I have been unable to discover the complete document.</em></p>
  <p>… and place the head of the squirrel between the electric plates.</p>
  <p>14. Move the goat into the adjoining room, and close the shutters.</p>
  <p>15. Empty the packet of bile beans into a large glass jar, seal the lid tight, and shake furiously until you are weeping with sheer exhaustion. Dry your tears with a rag.</p>
  <p>16. Peek through the flap to ensure the goat has not escaped.</p>
  <p>17. Coax from the core of your being a sense of dazzling, effulgent priggery. Pat the squirrel on the head.</p>
  <p>18. Now intone the litany of pseudo-voodoo ululations you memorised earlier.</p>
  <p>19. Wrap the cravat around your neck. Strike a dashing pose. Cut some capers.</p>
  <p>20. The bricks in the hod should now be cool to the touch. Chuck them one by one out of the window into the empty carpark. Make a sketch of their disposition upon the concrete, using a very sharp pencil and a fresh page of your notepad.</p>
  <p>21. The brain of the squirrel ought now be fully modified. Remove the electric plates with care, and put them in the dustbin.</p>
  <p>22. Winch the dustbin to the ceiling.</p>
  <p>23. Pass your hands, those tiny, wrinkled, blotchy, shivering cold hands, over the eel at rest upon the countertop.</p>
  <p>24. Go and get the glue-gun, and…</p>
  
</body>
</html>
