<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ticking Off Hitchens</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-4676">Ticking Off Hitchens</h1>
  <p>I do not often contribute to the Comments threads on blogs. Whether this is a character flaw or a virtue I am not sure. Probably it is sheer idleness. However, up bright and early this morning I turned to Peter Hitchens' latest postage over at the <em><strong><a href="http://hitchensblog.mailonsunday.co.uk/2010/06/the-last-of-the-wine.html" class="external">Mail Online</a></strong></em>, and came upon this sentence:</p>
  <p><em>Seeing several of [Mary Renault's] books at bargain prices, I stuffed them in my backpack and began reading (as it happened) ‘The King Must Die’ as I waited for a delayed train on a country platform.</em></p>
  <p>I could not let this pass without comment. So I commented:</p>
  <p><em>Mr Hitchens&nbsp;: I really must take issue with your use of the word “backpack”. It ill becomes you. “Backpack” is a barbaric neologism used by young persons, often those on so-called “gap years”. In future, please ensure you use one of the three—yes, three!—acceptable alternatives, “rucksack”, “haversack”, or—my personal preference—“knapsack”.</em></p>
  <p>These words of wisdom are awaiting moderation, but I hope to see them appear soon. Peter Hitchens is one of the few mainstream press bloggers who engages fully, indeed robustly, with his readers, so I also hope to see his grovelling <em>mea culpa</em> before too long.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
