<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Cleggmania</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-4326">Cleggmania</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I know I promised not to babble on about the general election, but hope I will be forgiven for sharing with you this important note. Thanks to Gaw over at <strong><a href="http://gawragbag.blogspot.com/2010/04/clegg-and-shag-hag-dreg-prig.html" class="external">Ragbag</a></strong>, I learned that ‘Clegg’ is another word for a horse-fly. Here is the full OED definition, with handy quotations for use when a Liberal Democrat canvasser comes a-pounding at your door:</p>
  <p><strong>cleg</strong></p>
  <p>Also 5 <strong>clege</strong>, 6 <strong>clegge</strong>, 7–9 <strong>clegg</strong>.</p>
  <p>A gadfly, horse-fly, or breeze.</p>
  <p><strong>a1449</strong> W. BOWER in <em>Fordun's Scotichron</em>. (1759) II. 376 The unlatit woman..pungis as the cleg. <strong>1483</strong> <em>Cath. Angl</em>. 66 A Clege. <strong>1570</strong> LEVINS <em>Manip</em>. 53 A clegge, flée, <em>solipunga</em>. <strong>1656</strong> <em>Burton's Diary</em> (1828) I. 308 Sir Christopher Pack did cleave like a clegg, and was very angry he could not be heard <em>ad infinitum</em>. <strong>1658</strong> ROWLAND <em>Moufet's Theat. Ins.</em> 936 The English [call it] a Burrel-fly, Stowt, and Breese: and also of sticking and clinging, Cleg and Clinger. <strong>1855</strong> ROBINSON <em>Whitby Gloss</em>., Clegs, the large grey flies which torment horses and cattle in summer. ‘He sticks like a cleg.’ <strong>1872</strong> <em>Daily News</em> 24 Aug., For animals of their size, ‘clegs' are exceedingly light-footed.</p>
  <p><strong>b</strong>. Comb., as <strong>cleg-stung</strong> adj.</p>
  <p><strong>1808</strong> MAYNE <em>Siller</em> Gun in <em>Pop. Poems Scotl</em>. (1862) 136 Like cattle prodit with a prong, Or cleg-stung fillies.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
