<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>H</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5270">H</h1>
  <p><em>H is for Hybrids</em></p>
  <p>“Indeed, many people… think that the aliens, having subjected abductees to breeding experiments in parked spaceships or secret underground laboratories, have already produced a race of hybrids who will someday rule or even replace us. The hybrids may in fact be shopping and commuting all around us as I write. And even if they aren't, their mixed parentage could help to explain the familiar images found in abduction memories like the following…</p>
  <p>“<em>He's got on a, a multistriped t-shirt… And some, like, little blue shorts…&nbsp; They had sophisticated-looking toys… They have a yo-yo… It looks like an Etch-a-Sketch screen, except it's filled with all sorts of stuff.</em></p>
  <p>“<em>They were dressed like 1920s thugs, and came into the bedroom with old-fashioned Tommy Guns, aiming at me and blazing away.</em></p>
  <p>“<em>Beth Collings saw a naked man in an enormous white cowboy hat.</em></p>
  <p>“<em>Karla Turner… mentions two people she knows who have seen aliens disguised as hillbillies. Katharina Wilson had an experience with an alien masquerading as Al Gore</em>.</p>
  <p>“Once recollections of this kind are taken to be authentic, guesswork as to the aliens' true nature and purpose becomes irresistible. What if, for example, Katharina Wilson's visitor wasn't just masquerading as Al Gore but <em>was</em> Al Gore—the hybrid or body snatcher who has already replaced the man from Tennessee? And if so, the alien takeover of our executive branch surely wouldn't have stopped at the second in command. Consider this provocative observation by the renowned abduction expert David M Jacobs:</p>
  <p>“<em>Because the late-state hybrids are mainly human, they have strong sexual drives but little conscience. It is as if they have human attributes but lack human controls. Even if they do have a conscience, they know that the human victim will immediately forget what happened to her. The hybrid might assume there is no lasting effect upon the human and he can therefore do and say anything he pleases with impunity.</em></p>
  <p>“Could the space creature who assumed the form of Bill Clinton have been hideously mocking us when it kept invoking ‘executive privilege’?”</p>
  <p>Frederick Crews, “The Mind Snatchers” (1998) in <em>Follies Of The Wise&nbsp;: Dissenting Essays</em> (2006)</p>
  
</body>
</html>
