<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>How To Excommunicate Vermin</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5667">How To Excommunicate Vermin</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Sabine Baring-Gould Week continues with some extremely useful information imparted in his book <em>Curiosities Of Olden Times</em> (1869), written when our hero was living in the abundant <strong><a href="2010-12-08-how-to-excommunicate-vermin.xhtml" class="internal" title="A Remarkable Amount Of Mud">mud</a></strong> of Dalton i't Muck. Examining legal proceedings taken against “snails, flies, mice, moles, ants, caterpillars, &amp;c.”, Baring-Gould gives us the precise wording recommended when one wishes to excommunicate such vile creatures. This was drawn up by Bartholomew de Chasseneux, “a noted lawyer of the sixteenth century”. Please note that you should always bring your case against creepy-crawlies and vermin before the ecclesiastical rather than the civil courts.</p>
  <p>The correct form of excommunication is as follows: “O snails, caterpillars, and other obscene creatures, which destroy the food of our neighbours, depart hence! Leave these cantons which you are devastating, and take refuge in those localities where you can injure no one. I.N.P., &amp;c.”</p>
  <p>It is unclear to me whether that “&amp;c.” indicates simply the reading of the Lord's Prayer—“I.N.P.” standing for “In Nomine Patris”—or whether there are further animadversions and anathemas to follow. In the absence of any clear guidance I suppose you shall have to get the presiding excommunicator to improvise.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/5667">[2010-12-08]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
