<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-3680">104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I am indebted to reader Mike Jennings who, despite being banished to a pompous land, has, in his own words, been “compiling these tentative notes toward a Dobson bibliography”. This seems to me to be a work of magnificent scholarship. Indeed, I cannot begin to imagine how we have all been coping without it.</p>
  <p>Mr Jennings adds “Much work is to be done of course with regard to details such as binding, font, illustration etc but I know my limitations.&nbsp; Such scrutiny I will leave to more qualified Dobsonists with the requisite anoraks and little grease-proof bags of egg sandwiches.”</p>
  <p>The bibliography is ordered according to an arcane system of Mr Jennings' own devising, one the intrinsic beauty of which I hope we can all appreciate. I have taken the liberty of applying a set of Blötzmann Numbers to the pamphlet titles. Though broadly similar to ordinary numbers, they of course harbour a terrifying underlying significance. To paraphrase H P Lovecraft, “the most merciful thing in the world is the inability of the human mind to understand the Blötzmann Numbers”.</p>
  <p>Unless otherwise stated—and it isn't—all titles are out of print.</p>
  <ol>
    <li>The Adhesive Properties Of Six Hundred Different Types Of Glue, With Diagrams</li>
    <li>Dobsonetics.</li>
    <li>A Recantation Of Dobsonetics.</li>
    <li>On The History Of Potato Clocks.</li>
    <li>My Revolutionary New Method Of Moving Sludge Around The Countryside.</li>
    <li>Hedges Hidden From Sight By Steam.</li>
    <li>I, Piano Tuner!</li>
    <li>“The hedgehog grumbling back to darkness is known by me and loved by me” (The Rod McKuen pamphlet)</li>
    <li>Why I Shall Bestride This Century Like A Colossus.</li>
    <li>Certain Aspects Of Plastic Baubles And Plastic Sheeting.</li>
    <li>Killer Bees, Ferenc Puskas, And Tomatoes On the Vine.</li>
    <li>How I Coped With A Collapsed Lung During A Thunderstorm.</li>
    <li>Chew, Gnaw, Eel, Teeth, Pap And Slops For Dinner&nbsp;: A Memoir Of Vlasto Pismire.</li>
    <li><em>Of the fifteen-part critical analysis of The Life and Times of Captain Cake, Volume IV is entitled</em> Welk, Bankhead, Loy&nbsp;: There'll Be A Welcome In The Hillsides.</li>
    <li>Worlds Beyond Sense .</li>
    <li>Chucklesome Fripperies From My Notebooks (Lavender Series).</li>
    <li>Things Beginning with B, My Hatred of Squirrels, &amp; Hedy Lamarr: Scientist.</li>
    <li>How And Why I Built Eight Small Pâpier Maché Brontosauruses.</li>
    <li>How I Invented a Revolutionary New Birdseed.</li>
    <li>The Belle of Amherst &amp; Other Essays Written During An Unprecedented Pea-souper.</li>
    <li>Hideous Execution Practices Of The Blood-Drenched Corsairs.</li>
    <li>Ten Easy Steps To Grooming Your Cormorant.</li>
    <li>My Nightmares About Emily Dickinson.</li>
    <li>Downy, Witched, Dutch Cloud-Heaps of Some Quaintest Tramontane Nephelococcugia of Thought.</li>
    <li>Dobson's Heraldic Dossier.</li>
    <li>Marsh Gas, Badge Man, Prester John &amp; Other Imponderables.</li>
    <li>Tip Top Encyclopaedia Of Tip Top Pop Bands.</li>
    <li>There's Hours Of Fun To Be Had With A Handful Of Pins (Under the pseudonym “Blenkinsop”).</li>
    <li>Description of &amp; Reverie upon Forty-Four Curlews.</li>
    <li>Some Hurried Notes On Tab Hunter.</li>
    <li>Eight Things You Never Knew About Tuesday Weld.</li>
    <li>Why I Do Not Live In A Grot, Elfin Or Otherwise.</li>
    <li>Copse &amp; Spinney Nomenclature&nbsp;: A Guide For Tiny Tots.</li>
    <li>Six Types Of Snodgrass Implement.</li>
    <li>On The Naming Of Curs As Fido&nbsp;: A Stern Corrective.</li>
    <li>An Alphabetical Guide To What Every Infant Should Know About The Majesty Of Nature.</li>
    <li>How My Annotated List Of Chewed Things Was Lost In A Muddy Canadian River.</li>
    <li>The Bee As Moral Exemplar &amp; Other Insect-Related Parables For Young &amp; Old Alike, Innit.</li>
    <li>Cornflakes, Ready Brek, Special K and Suicide.</li>
    <li>Some Things To Eat In The Bleak Midwinter.</li>
    <li>A Full And Frank Commentary On “The Dark Night Of The Soul”, Wherein Certain Controversial Theories Are Proposed Which Have Led The Author Into Fist-Fights With Sailors Outside Tough Drinking Taverns In The Marseilles Dockyards.</li>
    <li>Little Stories Of Charming People To Warm The Cockles Of Your Heart.</li>
    <li>Six Hundred And Twenty Uncanny Tales, Together With A Pen-Portrait Of Victoria Principal.</li>
    <li>How I Was Attacked By A Flock Of Partridges At A Bus Stop While On My Way To The Potato Club.</li>
    <li>Bilgewater Elegies.</li>
    <li>Netherlands, Holland, Dutch—What's That About?</li>
    <li>Some Thoughts About Shabby Taverns, Cows And The 1958 Munich Air Disaster Which Wiped Out The Flower Of Post-War English Football, Although Sir Matt Busby Survived The Crash, Praise The Lord.</li>
    <li>An Essay About Bowls, Dishes And Pots.</li>
    <li>A Pamphlet Of Majestic Sweeping Paragraphs.</li>
    <li>Why I Smashed My Copy Of “Thick As A Brick” By Jethro Tull Into Twenty Thousand Pieces With A Geological Hammer And Then Glued It Back Together Again.</li>
    <li>Notes On A Shelf Of Test Tubes Containing The Blood Of Squirrels.</li>
    <li>Observations On Cows From A Great Distance, In The Rain.</li>
    <li>He Who Plucks The Strings Of A Banjo In Wintry, Wintry Weather.</li>
    <li>Ten Things Guaranteed To Drive Marigold Chew Crackers.</li>
    <li>Nomenclature of Paraguayan Bandit Musicians &amp; Soviet Collective Farm Administrators Compared.</li>
    <li>All About My Nocturnal River Trip In The Government Canoe With Captain Vargas, During Which I Was Heavily Sedated.</li>
    <li>My Parents Are Dead, But Christ!, I Adore Hiking.</li>
    <li>The Death Of Stalin Has Led Me By Dense Entangled Byways To The Unshakeable Conviction That A Complete And Thorough Pedagogic System Can Be Based Entirely Upon My Own Pamphlets.</li>
    <li>How I Thwarted My Cacodaemon With A Pointy Stick And Some Bleach.</li>
    <li>God Almighty, Is There Anything More Satisfying Than A Well-Executed Picnic?</li>
    <li>A Dictionary Of Squirrels (and its appendix Eerie &amp; Macabre Picnic Praxis).</li>
    <li>A Dictionary Of Guillemot Habitat Maps.</li>
    <li>Wild And Unhinged Fantasies Regarding The Existence Of Wholly Imaginary Registers.</li>
    <li>Why I Can Be Difficult And Self-Centred.</li>
    <li>The Sane Person's Guide To Swearing By The Etruscan Gods.</li>
    <li>Child, Be Thunderstruck As Your Tiny Brain Copes With The Notion That Ice And Water And Steam Are But Different Forms Of The Same Substance!.</li>
    <li>Why Those Let Loose From Mad Cabins Should Immediately Up Sticks And Settle At A Seaside Resort.</li>
    <li>“On terrifying facial expressions”.</li>
    <li>Meetings With Remarkable Owls.</li>
    <li>“On the forest beings”.</li>
    <li>The Unutterable Chaos Caused By Panicking Hens.</li>
    <li>My Mysterious Day Trip To Alaska And What I Did With A Handful Of Pebbles While I Was There.</li>
    <li>How To Knit Knots While Remaining Invisible To Hurrying Brutes.</li>
    <li>Tips For Janitors.</li>
    <li>On the History and Origins of the Fred Jessop Cup.</li>
    <li>A New And Improved Method Of Drying Your Puck With A Towel.</li>
    <li>Some Arresting, Diverting, And Frankly Sensational Factoids Regarding Certain Ponds I Have Had The Pleasure To Take A Turn Around, In All Weathers, Arranged In Alphabetical Order By Pond Name.</li>
    <li>How I Spent Six Months Underground In An Amazing Subterranean Vault Built To House The Blister Lane Gasworks, Together With Mr And Mrs Pan And Their Cat Hudibras. (considered lost)</li>
    <li>An Essay Concerning A Bird Perched Upon A Promontory.</li>
    <li>A Disquisition Upon The Various Types Of Cloth From Which Trousers May Be Woven , Together With Some Pictures Of Hume Cronyn.</li>
    <li>How I Conquered My Fear Of Googie Withers, Together With A Few Tips On The Limitless Possibilities For Entertainment Afforded By A Toy Squirrel Made Of Tin.</li>
    <li>Fun With Paraffin!</li>
    <li>How To Dye A Goat.</li>
    <li>What Planet Does Jeanette Winterson Live On?</li>
    <li>On The Judicious And Non-Repeating Deployment Of Pancake Hints.</li>
    <li>Thousands Of Unusual And Arresting Facts About Birds.</li>
    <li>The Huddled Shapelessness Of The Dead.</li>
    <li>How I Poked A Pointed Stick Into A Hedge.</li>
    <li>Mawkish Fables Of Punctilio And Rectitude For Tiny Tots.</li>
    <li>Never Pack A Knapsack In A Panic.</li>
    <li>Keeping Cutlery Aligned Tidily In The Cutlery Drawer As An Absolute Imperative If One Aspires To Be Fully Human.</li>
    <li>The Happy Sprinter&nbsp;: An Eye-Witness Account Of The Training Schedule Of Fictional Athlete Bobnit Tivol Under The Direction Of His Coach, Old Halob.</li>
    <li>Tacky To Goo&nbsp;: Some Frightfully Complicated Thoughts On The Consistency Of Manufactured Pastes.</li>
    <li>Ten Short Essays On Chopping And Cutting And Hacking.</li>
    <li>Some Remarks On The Grotesque Pallor I Encountered This Morning In My Shaving Mirror.</li>
    <li>The Four Horsemen Of The Apocalypse… Or Were They?</li>
    <li>How I Mislaid My Bus Pass During A Thunderstorm.</li>
    <li>An Anthology Of Disastrous Hiking Mishaps Cobbled Together From A Lifetime Of Ill-Starred Rustic Pursuits.</li>
    <li>Forty Visits To The Post Office.</li>
    <li>Six Lectures On Fruit.</li>
    <li>Where Eagles Dare.</li>
    <li>The&nbsp;Man Who Put The Bee In Beelzebub.</li>
    <li>An Anecdote About Channelling Jungle Demons Wearing A Copper Cone Atop My Head While Hiding In A Cubby Full Of Bats.</li>
    <li>Quite A Few Things I Know About Swans.</li>
  </ol>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/3680">[2010-01-15]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
