<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>A Badger, With No Head</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>A Badger, With No Head</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I am having one of my occasional bursts of activity on <strong><a href="2009-11-27-tull-cloth-eel.xhtml" class="internal" title="Tull, Cloth, Eel">Facecloth</a></strong>, the social networking site. Temperamentally, a <strong><a href="2009-05-25-some-words-from-inside-a-barrel.xhtml" class="internal" title="Some Words From Inside A Barrel">Diogenesian recluse</a></strong> such as myself would be better suited to an antisocial network, but needs must when the devil drives, as they say. Yesterday I posted on Facecloth a snippet which fits neatly into the Hooting Yard “Things I Have Learned” category, and it elicited a couple of comments in reply which are worth sharing with a wider audience.</p>
  <p>I learned, from Peter Ackroyd's new book <em>The English Ghost&nbsp;: Spectres Through Time</em>, (and I quote from my paraphrase at Facecloth):</p>
  <p><em>On Christmas Day 1716, Samuel Wesley (father of John Wesley) was haunted by an apparition of “a badger, with no head”. It was called Jeffrey.</em></p>
  <p>This is something I am very, very glad to know, and I doubt that a Yuletide will pass in future without me mentioning it.</p>
  <p><strong><a href="http://www.bdrak.com/" class="external">Bob Drake</a></strong> replied, saying “That got me thinking. Would I rather be haunted by a badger's disembodied head, or a badger's headless body? I can only conclude that it would depend on the temperament of the partial apparition”, while Roland Clare picked up the echo of <em><strong><a href="2010-08-27-jubilate-dabblo.xhtml" class="internal" title="Jubilate Dabblo">Jubilate Agno</a></strong></em>, and suggested: “For I Will Consider My Headless Badger Jeffrey …”</p>
  <p>It is my fond hope that Mr Drake will be inspired to write a song on the subject, and Mr Clare will essay a badgerised version of the pertinent section of Christopher Smart's poem.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
