<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Lobster Research</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-7210">Lobster Research</h1>
  <p>Phew! This <strong><a href="2011-09-04-research.xhtml" class="internal" title="Research">lobster research</a></strong> is pretty hectic, I can tell you. Progress is slow—I still know almost nothing about lobsters—but I have been indefatigable in tracking down promising materials.</p>
  <p>To start with, I am awaiting delivery of <strong><a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/Lobster-Animal-Richard-J-King/dp/1861897952/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1315220397&amp;sr=1-1" class="external">this book</a></strong>. When postie totters up the path clutching it in its cardboard packaging, I shall tear it out of his hands and read it from cover to cover. Having done so, I hope I shall know a hell of a lot more about lobsters than I do at the moment.</p>
  <p>But of course only a weedy milksop type of researcher would rely on a single source. I have also been poring over the online catalogue of the <strong><a href="http://www.londonlibrary.co.uk/" class="external">London Library</a></strong>, looking specifically for books with the word “lobster” in the title, and on my next visit, later in the week, I intend to borrow some or all of these works. There is Elisabeth Townsend's <em>Lobster&nbsp;: A Global History</em> (2011), <em>Consider The Lobster &amp; Other Essays</em> by David Foster Wallace (2007), and <em>Lucullus ; or, Palatable essays&nbsp;: in which are merged “The oyster,” “The lobster,” and “Sport and its pleasures” by the author of “The Queen's messenger,” “The bric-à-brac hunter,” &amp;c.,</em> an 1878 volume by Herbert Byng Hall. Then we have <em>The Cosmographical Lobster&nbsp;: a poetic novel</em> by Henri Chopin (1976) and <em>Phantom Lobster&nbsp;: A True Story</em> by Leo Walmsley (1933). I think I shall also borrow <em>Crab, shrimp, and lobster lore&nbsp;: gathered amongst the rocks at the sea-shore, by the riverside, and in the forest</em> by W.B. Lord (1867). By the time I have read that lot, I think I will have learned quite a bit about lobsters.</p>
  <p>More than I learned, in any case, from a website to which I was directed by Miss Dimity Cashew (aka Pansy Cradledew). Miss Cashew is of the opinion that I am wrong, wrong, wrong in my conviction that there might be such a thing as an “intelligent lobster”. Thus she roamed around Het Internet until she found a site which, she thought, would knock some sense into my cranium. <strong><a href="http://www.gma.org/lobsters/trivia.html" class="external">Here</a></strong> we read that</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>a lobster has a brain the size of a grasshopper's. The lobster brain is primarily just a collection of ganglia, or nerve endings. It's evident from the lobster brain's lack of complexity that a lobster does not do much deep thinking.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>That is all very well, but I would lay greater trust in half a dozen books from the London Library than in a webpage of “Riddles, Trivia, and More”. We shall return to this subject when I have done some reading.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
