<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Worm In The Bud&nbsp;: Notes For Your Reading Group</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6629">The Worm In The Bud&nbsp;: Notes For Your Reading Group</h1>
  <p>You will all be discussing <em><strong><a href="2011-05-23-the-worm-in-the-bud.xhtml" class="internal" title="The Worm In The Bud">The Worm In The Bud</a></strong></em> in your Hooting Yard Reading Groups, so here are some useful notes and guidelines for discussion.</p>
  <p><strong>Terms Used</strong></p>
  <p>Bud—In plants, a flower or leaf at any stage of growth until fully opened.</p>
  <p>Sprig—A shoot, twig, or spray of a plant, shrub, or tree.</p>
  <p>Worm—Any animal that creeps or crawls.</p>
  <p>Babinsky—Lumbering, walrus-moustached, psychopathic serial killer.</p>
  <p>Dog—A domesticated carnivorous mammal, <em>Canis familiaris</em> (or <em>C. lupus familiaris</em>), which typically has a long snout, an acute sense of smell, non-retractile claws, and a barking, howling, or whining voice, widely kept as a pet or for hunting, herding livestock, guarding, or other utilitarian purposes.</p>
  <p>Copper—Slang term for plod.</p>
  <p><strong>Terms Not Used</strong></p>
  <p>Detective Captain Cargpan—Babinsky's Nemesis</p>
  <p>Nemesis—An agent of retribution</p>
  <p>Agent—When used in the term Special Agent denotes a rank similar to Detective Captain in certain police, copper, or plod hierarchies.</p>
  <p><strong>Questions And Guidelines For Discussion</strong></p>
  <p>Why do you think the narrator enters a copse rather than, say, a spinney?</p>
  <p>Make a list of the kinds of plants likely to be found in a copse far from the nearest town.</p>
  <p>The narrator tells us his hands are hairy. Are yours?</p>
  <p>Give a detailed character sketch and potted biography of Zoltan.</p>
  <p>Embroider a counterpane similar to the one across which the worm crawls.</p>
  <p>Do you think Babinsky is (a) evil, or (b) sick? If and when he is eventually caught, do you think he should be (i) confined to a prison, (ii) confined to a lunatic asylum, (iii) hacked to pieces by an angry mob, or (iv) allowed to escape scot free to resume his catalogue of enormities?</p>
  <p>Why do you think the narrator drinks Squelcho! rather than a nice piping hot cup of tea?</p>
  <p>When he titled one of his angry Scottish novels <em>How Late It Was, How Late</em>, do you think angry Scotsman James Kelman was thinking about your own Hooting Yard Reading Group and its tendency to continue wittering on and on until the cows come home?</p>
  
</body>
</html>
