<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Q &amp; A&nbsp;: Lothar Preen</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Q &amp; A&nbsp;: Lothar Preen</h1>
  <p class="noindent">He's a maestro! He's a psychopath! He's got a majestic bouffant! Lothar Preen answers this week's Q &amp; A.</p>
  <p><strong>When were you happiest?</strong> Whenever I squash lesser beings under my stylish black boot.</p>
  <p><strong>What is your greatest fear?</strong> That when I die, I shall find heaven too pokey and constricting for my afterlife ambitions.</p>
  <p><strong>What is your earliest memory?</strong> The creation of the universe.</p>
  <p><strong>Property aside, what's the most expensive thing you've bought?</strong> My life, when I paid off several different gangs of ruffians in the dockyard taverns of Marseilles.</p>
  <p><strong>What is your most treasured possession?</strong> My majestic bouffant.</p>
  <p><strong>Where would you like to live?</strong> At the top of a lighthouse erected on the grassy knoll.</p>
  <p><strong>What would your super power be?</strong> The sending forth of lightning bolts from the tips of my little fingers.</p>
  <p><strong>If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose?</strong> Feudal serfdom.</p>
  <p><strong>Who would play you in the film of your life?</strong> The great god Pan.</p>
  <p><strong>Who would you invite to your dream dinner party?</strong> Trembling underlings.</p>
  <p><strong>What is your must unappealing habit?</strong> Affectionately mussing the hair of trembling underlings in moments of weakness.</p>
  <p><strong>What is your favourite book?</strong> <em>Popsy The Pig And The Ipsy Dipsy Lobster</em> by Prudence Foxglove.</p>
  <p><strong>What would be your fancy dress costume of choice?</strong> Tar and feathers. Or just tar.</p>
  <p><strong>What is the worst thing anyone's said to you?</strong> “O maestro, I beg of you, please have mercy on my immortal soul!”</p>
  <p><strong>What do you owe your parents?</strong> My parents died in an avalanche on the day I was born.</p>
  <p><strong>What or who is the greatest love of your life?</strong> <em>The Phlogiston Variations</em> by Chlorine Winslow.</p>
  <p><strong>What was the best kiss of your life?</strong> The mirror, a dozen times a day.</p>
  <p><strong>Which words or phrases do you most overuse?</strong> Look on my works, ye weedy, and despair!</p>
  <p><strong>What is the worst job you've done?</strong> The mass poisoning in Blister Lane.</p>
  <p><strong>If you could edit your past, what would you change?</strong> My bouffant would be more majestic.</p>
  <p><strong>When did you last cry, and why?</strong> I weep whenever I hear the innocent laughter of children.</p>
  <p><strong>How do you relax?</strong> Pulling the legs off flies.</p>
  <p><strong>What song would you like played at your funeral?</strong> Something German and argumentative and shouty and improvised.</p>
  <p><strong>What is the most important lesson life has taught you?</strong> That should be rephrased as “what is the most important lesson you have taught life?”</p>
  <p><strong>Tell us a secret.</strong> I owe the majesty of my bouffant to L'Oreal's light reflecting booster technology.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
