<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Fee Fi Fo Saffron Walden</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Fee Fi Fo Saffron Walden</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Recently I posted a <strong><a href="2011-04-02-fee-fi-fo-fum.xhtml" class="internal" title="Fee Fi Fo Fum">piece</a></strong> about a giant who roars “Fee Fi Fo Fum!” and smells the blood of an Englishman, and a couple of years ago I became enthusiastic about Thomas Nashe (1567-c.1601) among whose works is the splendidly titled <em><strong><a href="2009-08-04-have-with-you-to-saffron-walden.xhtml" class="internal" title="Have With You To Saffron Walden">Have With You To Saffron Walden</a></strong></em>—which, alas, I never got round to reading. Had I done so, I would already have learned what I found out today.</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">Father had taken us to see John Gielgud in the title role [of <em>King Lear</em>] at Stratford-upon-Avon, and although Gielgud was marvellous, it was the words of Poor Tom, the Bedlam beggar on the stormy heath (actually Edgar, in disguise), that still rang in my ears:</p>
    <p><em>Child Rowland to the dark tower came;</em></p>
    <p><em>His word was still</em></p>
    <p><em>Fie, foh, and fum!</em></p>
    <p><em>I smell the blood of a British man!</em></p>
    <p>“Did Shakespeare steal that from <em>Jack and the Beanstalk</em>?” I had whispered in Daffy's ear. Or had the fairytale borrowed the words from Shakespeare? “Neither,” she whispered back: both had cribbed them from Thomas Nashe's <em>Have With You To Saffron Walden</em>, which, having been staged in 1596, pre-dated them.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">This is from <em>The Weed That Strings The Hangman's Bag</em> by Alan Bradley (2010), the second of his Flavia de Luce mysteries. These are new to me, but I am pleased to tell you that the heroine is an eleven-year-old amateur chemist and sleuth—a plucky and resourceful tot who bears a striking resemblance to our very own Tiny Enid, without the fascism and the club foot. It is a hugely enjoyable read, as one might expect from a book which makes mention of “a pair of gutta-percha motoring galoshes (‘Ideal for Country Breakdowns')”.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
