<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>128 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5855">128 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</h1>
  <p class="noindent">It is that time of year when reader Mike Jennings, from his exile in a pompous land, supplies us with an update to his comprehensive Dobson bibliography. A further twenty-four pamphlets have been added to the earlier list, which you can find <strong><a href="2011-01-14-128-pamphlets-out-of-print.xhtml" class="internal" title="104 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)">here</a></strong>. Mr Jennings has once again applied those terrifying, and terrifyingly significant, Blötzmann Numbers. Please note that, unless otherwise stated, all the listed titles are currently out of print.</p>
  <p>105. Ivan Clank, The Bailiff, O Is He Dead Then?</p>
  <p>106. Pancakes&nbsp;: Food Of The Gods?</p>
  <p>107. Pancakes&nbsp;: Food Of The Gods</p>
  <p>108. My Pancake Ineptitude&nbsp;: A Heart-Rending Confession In Sixteen Bursts Of Hallucinatory Prose.</p>
  <p>109. Hell, Its Bells</p>
  <p>110, My Terrifying Encounter With A Tiny Lethal Phantasmal Poison Frog.</p>
  <p>111. Every Lace Has Its Own Boot.</p>
  <p>112. Fifty Pages Of Prose About Daytime Naps In Theory And Practice.</p>
  <p>113. The Hidden Wealth Of Werewolves.</p>
  <p>114. The Mythical Island Where Werewolves Think They Come From.</p>
  <p>115. A Pedestrian Memoir Of Hiking Holidays Accompanied By Noted Daubist Rex Daub.</p>
  <p>116. A Thousand Breakfasts In Five Hundred Days.</p>
  <p>117. Flight-Patterns Of The Common Shrike, With A Tremendously Accurate Diagram by Marigold Chew.</p>
  <p>118. This Year's Summer Reading.</p>
  <p>119. Chucklesome Fripperies From The Bowels Of Hell.</p>
  <p>120. The Poultry Yards Of The Grand Archdukes.</p>
  <p>121. Tantalising Paragraphs About The World O’ The Future.</p>
  <p>122. The Significance, In My Long-Ago Infancy, Of An Undigested Vole.</p>
  <p>123. A Comparative Study Of The Metabolisms Of The Horses Of Three Knights Of The Realm.</p>
  <p>124. An Entirely New System Of Moss Drainage, Incorporating Flexible Leather And Lead Pipes, A Plastic Funnel, And A Dobson Jar.</p>
  <p>125. A Detailed Account Of How I Provided Emergency Medical Assistance, Despite Having Not A Jot Of Training, To A Flying Squirrel Exhausted And Maimed After Being Pursued And Attacked By A Small Tough-Guy Japanese Macaque Monkey Which Mistook It For A Predatory Bird, With Several Diagrams And An Afterword Quoting A Jethro Tull Song Lyric.</p>
  <p>126. Picnics Of Disillusionment.</p>
  <p>127. The History, Theory And Practice Of Jiggery-Pokery, From Ancient Times Up To Yesterday Morning, With Practical Tips And Cut Out ‘N’ Keep Cardboard Display Models For Your Mantelpiece.</p>
  <p>128. Popular Games And Pastimes Suitable For Those Marooned On Remote Atolls Pending Rescue By A Ship Of Fools.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/5855">[2011-01-14]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
