<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Dismantled Wooden Myrna Loy</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6532">Dismantled Wooden Myrna Loy</h1>
  <p class="noindent">He came, clutching an Alpenstock, from the far Tyrol.</p>
  <p>He joined the Baader-Meinhof Gang, along with Astrid Proll.</p>
  <p>He joined an English folk group, and sang a Fol De Rol.</p>
  <p>And no one ever realised that he was a wooden doll.</p>
  <p>His name was not Pinocchio, a different wooden boy.</p>
  <p>Our hero's name, quite weirdly, he shared with Myrna Loy,</p>
  <p>That siren of the silver screen who brought filmgoers much joy.</p>
  <p>Our Myrna was a terrorist and a folkie, a simple wooden toy.</p>
  <p>Pinocchio's nose, you will recall, grew longer as he lied.</p>
  <p>But Myrna Loy's did not, he took truth as his guide.</p>
  <p>Well, he only did so after Ulrike Meinhof died.</p>
  <p>For on that day &nbsp;his revolutionary fervour was cast aside.</p>
  <p>He cast aside the folk group too, hey nonny nonny no.</p>
  <p>He met a man in a field, one man who went to mow.</p>
  <p>He lay down on the fresh-mown grass, he had nowhere else to go</p>
  <p>And Myrna Loy, when winter came, was buried under snow.</p>
  <p>He lay there until springtime, a wooden boy, frozen, dead</p>
  <p>Until he was found by urchins, who carried him to a shed.</p>
  <p>They dismantled him piece by piece, the urchins Lars and Ned.</p>
  <p>And then they had a game of football with his wooden head.</p>
  <p>So when you tour, with your Alpenstock, the fabled far Tyrol,</p>
  <p>Say a prayer for Myrna Loy, the dismantled wooden doll.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
