<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lapel Accoutrement Poll Update</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6981">Lapel Accoutrement Poll Update</h1>
  <p class="noindent">At time of writing, Krishnan Guru-Murthy has nudged ahead of Yoko Ono in our poll to decide on the luminary most deserving of a complimentary Hooting Yard lapel accoutrement. Could it be, I wonder, that the email I fired off to him at Channel 4 News the other day bore fruit?</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">Dear Mr Guru-Murthy</p>
    <p>You are currently in second place (behind Yoko Ono) in a readers' poll at Hooting Yard to choose the luminary most deserving of a complimentary Hooting Yard lapel accoutrement. Might I suggest you vote for yourself and encourage others in the Channel 4 newsroom to cast their votes in your favour?</p>
    <p>Clearly something is going right, as many of my readers may be under the impression you are a <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/?s=krishnan+guru-murthy" class="hootingyard">fictional character</a></strong>, and they still vote for you!</p>
    <p>Yours sincerely</p>
    <p>Frank Key</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">Some readers may be appalled by what they see as a morally reprehensible attempt to influence the outcome of the poll. Let me assure these virtuous souls that I fully intend to fire off similar letters to De Botton, Huffington, Tempah, and Ono. But not Balls, for Christ's sake, not Balls!</p>
  
</body>
</html>
