<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lars And Maud</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6501">Lars And Maud</h1>
  <p>Lars and Maud went up the hill to fetch a pail of water.</p>
  <p>Lars fell down and clonked his crown and Maud came tumbling after.</p>
  <p>They rolled and tumbled further down, tumbling pell mell,</p>
  <p>‘Til they came bumping to a halt down in the dingly dell.</p>
  <p>In the dell lurked the Grunty Man, who carried them off to his cave.</p>
  <p>But fear not, tinies! For Lars was bold and Maud was very brave.</p>
  <p>They shook their little fists and bawled and rent the sky asunder,</p>
  <p>And made the Grunty Man commit a very foolish blunder.</p>
  <p>He dropped them at the cave-mouth while he went to have a fight,</p>
  <p>An illegal boxing match under the cover of the night.</p>
  <p>The Grunty Man was pitted ‘gainst an awful, dreadful foe –</p>
  <p>None other than Miss Peep, affectionately known as “Little Bo”.</p>
  <p>She looked so pale and timorous, yet she packed a hefty punch,</p>
  <p>And often bashed a dozen ogres before she had her lunch.</p>
  <p>So when the Grunty Man stalked off to meet his Nemesis,</p>
  <p>Lars and Maud ran off into the arms of Alger Hiss.</p>
  <p>Yes, Alger Hiss, the communist spy from Washington DC!</p>
  <p>Urbane and droll and stylish, dressed up to a T.</p>
  <p>He took the tots to a meeting of his fellow-travelling Reds,</p>
  <p>Where Stalinist propaganda turned their pointy little heads.</p>
  <p>They went back to the cave and found the Grunty Man covered in gore.</p>
  <p>Little Bo Peep had bashed him up, then bashed him up some more.</p>
  <p>They recruited him to their cause, to overthrow the state.</p>
  <p>Said Lars (or Maud) “We must act before it is too late!”</p>
  <p>So Lars and Maud and the Grunty Man went back to the dingly dell,</p>
  <p>And hid some microfilmed secrets at the bottom of the well.</p>
  <p>But they were caught by Nixon, indefatigable in his zest</p>
  <p>To place as many Reds as possible under house arrest.</p>
  <p>He confined them to a house atop the hill they climbed for water,</p>
  <p>A solid and a sturdy house well built from bricks and mortar,</p>
  <p>Like the house of the three little pigs that withstood lupine huff and puff.</p>
  <p>But Lars and Maud and the Grunty Man were Communists, sure enough.</p>
  <p>So when the big bad wolf hove into view from o'er the hills,</p>
  <p>They sang in praise of Stalin and then swallowed their cyanide pills.</p>
  <p>And so the state was safe once more from Communist infiltration,</p>
  <p>And Nixon was bathed in the praise of a relieved and grateful nation.</p>
  <p>The Grunty Man and Lars and Maud were buried and forgot.</p>
  <p>But Richard Milhous Nixon—he is not.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
