<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Persiflage And Facecloth</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Persiflage And Facecloth</h1>
  <p>Readers will recall the podcast <strong><em><a href="http://hootingyard.org/?s=airy+persiflage" class="hootingyard">Airy Persiflage</a></em></strong>, wherein from time to time its onlie begetter, Walter O'Hara, turns his attentions to scribblings by Mr Key and the recitation thereof. In his latest outpourings for podpersons, Mr O'Hara tackles <strong><em><a href="http://misternizz.podbean.com/2011/07/27/ambrose-and-signor-ploppo/" class="external">Ambrose And Signor Ploppo</a></em></strong> (accompanied by “young Gar”) and <strong><em><a href="http://misternizz.podbean.com/2011/07/27/the-cruel-sea-by-mr-frank-key/" class="external">The Cruel Sea</a></em></strong>.</p>
  <p>It is perhaps worth giving some background to Mr O'Hara's choice of the latter piece. The other day, he “befriended” me on <strong><a href="2009-11-27-tull-cloth-eel.xhtml" class="internal" title="Tull, Cloth, Eel">Face<del>book</del>cloth</a></strong>. There, I noted that he can lay claim to having posted the most sensible status update ever to appear on the social networking site, a transcription of <strong><em><a href="2009-01-28-the-cruel-sea.xhtml" class="internal" title="The Cruel Sea">The Cruel Sea</a></em></strong> in its entirety. Several of his Facecloth friends wondered what he was wittering on about and made various (wrong) guesses before he revealed the sordid truth. At which point I stepped in to say how delighted I would be were he to recite the piece on his podcast. And lo! it came to pass!</p>
  <p>Complete and (initially) unattributed transcription of Hooting Yard texts as Facecloth updates is clearly the way forward. Let us hope it catches on.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
