<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Forty Thieves</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6651">The Forty Thieves</h1>
  <p>I have been wondering about the forty thieves in the tale of Ali Baba. As far as I am aware, we do not know their names, as we do the <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/mar04.htm#2004-03-09-4" class="hootingyard">names</a></strong> of the seven dwarves in the story of Snow White. Admittedly, I have not done a lot of research. Knud Padde—of whom more, much more, later—has done such research, however, and in a privately-printed monograph he supplies us with this list:</p>
  <ol>
    <li>Corky—a hireling thief, a chump, a talc-powdered wastrel.</li>
    <li>Mutcho—greasy, vindictive, base.</li>
    <li>Ibster—looms terrible in dreams, licks ice cream cones.</li>
    <li>Guff—the boffin of the gang, and sniper, and Tippi Hedren penpal,</li>
    <li>Spoors—great galumphing fool, Oppidan, thimble-fumbler.</li>
    <li>Waxy—waxy.</li>
    <li>Geraldo—of monstrous girth, of lively demeanour, of hand-stitched tunics.</li>
    <li>Carsten—polishes off raisins, swigs tap water, goes shod in clogs.</li>
    <li>Fang—inhabits palatial apartments with his wolf and his minuets.</li>
    <li>Sudbury —exists on a higher plane, thumps things, distressed.</li>
    <li>Oswin—suffers fools gladly, hung out to dry.</li>
    <li>Bantock—dustpan and brush man, Hotspur, clackety rhythm.</li>
    <li>Mort—hedger, was a water-bailiff, albino.</li>
    <li>Chippy—wanting eggs.</li>
    <li>Hardcastle—fevered brow, distorted spine, curly ringlets.</li>
    <li>Aptod—when first he flew he blundered into branches of dark trees.</li>
    <li>Shopworn—lacks the common touch, hoist by petards, a darling.</li>
    <li>Urbane—urbane yet ditzy, polka-dotted, ruminant.</li>
    <li>Dobbin—pumped gas back in Montana, unbridled savagery, lacks depth.</li>
    <li>Inky—several contradictory reports, buff-coloured envelope, chalk dust.</li>
    <li>Hig—shallow, potted, wet.</li>
    <li>Anglepoise—Jesuit upbringing, weather station, tarred with broad brush.</li>
    <li>Snapper—bolt upright, sprained ankles, Maoist.</li>
    <li>Boomer—booming voice, bloody nose, best before dusk.</li>
    <li>Chepstow—owls nest in his hair, he plays the piccolo, he eats mashed potato.</li>
    <li>Zigzoo—champs at bits, stinks of Jarlsberger, often with conifers.</li>
    <li>Delmore—lurid, spiteful, mechanical.</li>
    <li>Esher—flabby, subject to fits, member of Tuesday Weld Fan Club.</li>
    <li>Jetboy—likely to be found upon rotating things in park playgrounds.</li>
    <li>Casement—proudly lumpen, secretly engaged to a flapper, podcaster.</li>
    <li>Uck—abnormal alignment of head upon neck, neck grubby, hair unwashed.</li>
    <li>Fig—a stone's throw from the sea, green about the gills, hot to trot.</li>
    <li>Straubenzee—sings the songs his mother taught him in that Darmstadt nursery.</li>
    <li>Fogbound—clatters to and fro, goes haywire, made of cement.</li>
    <li>Wailywaily—hidden behind shutters, brilliantine in his hair, indiscreet.</li>
    <li>Burgess—over by the ice rink, underneath the arches, powered by batteries.</li>
    <li>Mudguard—guards mud.</li>
    <li>Pepinstow—thunderous hooves, brilliant plumage, exquisite table manners.</li>
    <li>Dixon— marimba, clutching at straws, gin slings and blood oranges.</li>
    <li>Quangocrat—double helpings of sausage-shaped dough snacks.</li>
  </ol>
  
</body>
</html>
