<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>In Praise Of Nisbet Spotting</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>In Praise Of Nisbet Spotting</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Reading a couple of blog postages today led me to cast my mind back to the heyday of nisbet spotting in the early nineteen-seventies. In <em><strong><a href="http://thedabbler.co.uk/2011/09/the-pleasure-of-pointlessness/" class="external">The Dabbler</a></strong></em>, ZMKC fondly recalls an absurd and pointless exchange of correspondence with a schoolfriend, while <strong><em><a href="http://blackberryjuniperandsherbet.blogspot.com/2011/09/life-is-like-ateaspoon-yes-it-is.html" class="external">BlackberryJuniper And Sherbet</a></em></strong> apologises (unnecessarily) that she is “thinking aloud about nothing in particular”.</p>
  <p>Absurdity, pointlessness and “nothing in particular” as one's subject matter all dovetail neatly into the theory and practice of nisbet spotting. I earlier gave some account of this exciting activity <strong><a href="2010-12-01-oi.xhtml" class="internal" title="Oi">here</a></strong>. To recap, aged around ten or eleven, I created a newspaper or magazine which purported to be the Official Journal of the Nisbet Spotting Society. Written by hand, illustrated with drawings and collages, the pages carefully stapled together—though not with <strong><a href="2011-09-13-fairy-stationer.xhtml" class="internal" title="Fairy Stationer">fairy staples</a></strong>—the contents of the Journal chronicled the failure of the Society's members ever to spot a nisbet. Indeed, I made it a conscious point never to explain what a nisbet was. I suppose it was my version of the Snark or the Boojum, though I don't think I had read Carroll's “Agony In Eight Fits” at the time.</p>
  <p>Did the nisbet even exist, or were those seeking to spot one on a futile quest? We shall never know, for before I faced up to deciding one way or another, I abandoned the Journal after five or six issues and discovered other enthusiasms. I continued to write, though I don't remember what. Then soon enough I entered the dread world of teendom, and became very serious and earnest, as teenpersons will do, and my writing suffered accordingly. I had an important message for the world, if only it would listen. It did not.</p>
  <p>It took about ten years for me to regain my mojo, and to realise that the absurdity and pointlessness and “nothing” of nisbet spotting showed the way forward. To a large extent, everything I have written over the past quarter of a century, since the first Malice Aforethought Press booklet in 1986, has been a sort of <em>hommage</em> to those hapless enthusiasts of the Nisbet Spotting Society.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/7284">[2011-09-14]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
