<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Dobsonmore</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6761">Dobsonmore</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Frank Key today answered mounting speculation about the nature of his new project and announced Dobsonmore, a unique and free-to-use website which builds an exciting online experience around the reading of his hugely successful Dobson piffle, and is partnered by Blodgett Global Domination Enterprises GmbH.</p>
  <p>The announcement today was heralded by the revealing of the website's name via an online search for its letters, and a ‘coming soon’ holding page which received over 36 visits within a million hours of launching.</p>
  <p>For this groundbreaking collaborative project, Frank Key has written extensive new material about Dobson, his pamphlets, and his boots, which will inform, inspire and entertain readers as they journey through the storylines of the piffle. Dobsonmore will later incorporate an online shop where people can purchase exclusively the long-awaited Dobson ePamphlets (out of e-print), in partnership with Frank Key's publishers worldwide, and is ultimately intended to become an online reading experience, extending the relevance of Dobson to new generations of readers, while still appealing to existing fans. As the Dobsonmore Shop develops, it is intended that it should include further products designed specifically for Dobson fans, offering a potential outlet for Blodgett Global Domination Enterprises GmbH products and services related to Dobsonmore. In keeping with Dobson's international appeal, the site will launch in English, Afrikaans, Ugric, Ket, Generic BBC Drama Peasant, and Glosa, with more languages to follow.</p>
  <p>In the new website, the storyline will be brought to life with sumptuous newly-commissioned illustrations and interactive ‘Moments' through which you can navigate, starting with the first appearance of Dobson bent over his escritoire, scribbling. On entering, you choose a foolish username and begin your experience. As you move through the chapters, you can read and share exclusive writing from Frank Key, and, just as Dobson barges through the door of his dilapidated hovel, so can you. You visit Pointy Town, get sorted into a chalet, write pamphlets and chuck pebbles at swans…</p>
  <p>That's quite enough of a rewritten <strong><a href="http://dailygrail.com/Speculative-Fiction/2011/6/Pottermore-Revealed" class="external">press release</a></strong> to be going on with.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
