<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>British Psychology</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>British Psychology</h1>
  <p>Following on from the potted sketches of our national character by <strong><a href="2010-09-01-77-words.xhtml" class="internal" title="77 Words">Brit</a></strong> and <strong><a href="2011-07-06-history-lesson.xhtml" class="internal" title="History Lesson">Wartime Housewife</a></strong>, let us turn to Norman Davies. It is far too long since I have posted extracts from his magnificent pamphlet <em>Further Science&nbsp;: Book 20</em> (2001), which I introduced to readers way back in <strong><a href="http://www.hootingyard.org/archive/jan04.htm#2004-01-20-3" class="hootingyard">January 2004</a></strong>, and quoted further in <strong><a href="http://www.hootingyard.org/archive/feb04.htm#2004-02-20-3" class="hootingyard">February 2004</a></strong> and <strong><a href="http://www.hootingyard.org/archive/jul05.htm#2005-07-21-1" class="hootingyard">July 2005</a></strong>. Here then, exactly as it appears in the pamphlet, is Davies on “British Psychology”:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>1. &nbsp;That Country Inventions etc., reveal innate area psychology.</p>
    <p>2. Cornwall—informal golden frills / harvest festival / nudist beach / carol service.</p>
    <p>3. Devon opposite formal garden frills—orange code guildhall / use of Wedding March.</p>
    <p>4. Somerset—soft dreamy colour squares—coloured glass / soft cheese / child pub—contrasts with Gloucester—dream formaIity—bowling green / Sunday School.</p>
    <p>5. Dorset / Hants have formal round hotel / bowls / sea cave.</p>
    <p>6. Sussex—complex old explosive—loves fireworks / gas lighting / Town Women's Guild / antiques / Brighton sex.</p>
    <p>7. Kent is the odd formal—Council lottery / Waltzing Matilda—in contrast to Essex odd informal—Peculiar People / Dunmow Flitch / heated armchair / hair FC colours.</p>
    <p>8. London small family segments—Bingo / one parent families. Middx small clappers—squash etc.</p>
    <p>9. Berks—small rounds—Table tennis / Job Centre and Oxford—mass of small items—Oxfam / marmalade / Hand ball / Post Office.</p>
    <p>10. Herts / Northants noisy organised complex units—digital computer / go kart / map / CB Radio / speedway.</p>
    <p>11. Norfolk—fish finger / dead static oblong, opposite to Leicester lively circles / motor mower / cycling / drive in store.</p>
    <p>12. Notts—larger rounds—Sports centre / football / sugar / Spot ball / Boots.</p>
    <p>13. Derby—muck frenzy—bakers / disposable nappy / mice racing.</p>
    <p>14. Cheshire—murky prying—neighbourhood watch / women's pubs.</p>
    <p>15. Lancs—of mass smooth silky moving little bits—Co-op / small claims Court / NSPCC / Music Hall / athletes club / test tube baby / Police panda cars and radios / computer / nurses strike etc.</p>
    <p>16. Yorks—slow rough organised bits—Rugby League / Con man / high rise flats / Building Society / tortoise Olympics / old folk bus / smoke free zone / Marks and Spencer.</p>
    <p>17. Durham etc.—thin tube lively bits—electric lamp Fallopian tube transplant / whippet / turbine / keep fit etc.</p>
  </blockquote>
  
</body>
</html>
