<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Advice On Grunting</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5910">Advice On Grunting</h1>
  <p class="noindent"><em>Courtesy of <strong><a href="http://catsmeatshop.blogspot.com/2011/01/we-are-amused.html" class="external">The Cat's Meat Shop</a></strong>, some extremely detailed advice on grunting:</em></p>
  <p>Take the baby hand in one of yours. Spread out the hand. Point to the thumb, and say decidedly, yet confidingly –</p>
  <p>1. This little pig went to market.” <em>(Grunt and let it be an ordinary pig's grunt.)</em></p>
  <p>Point to the next finger and say, in the deepest bass you can assume –</p>
  <p>2. “This little pig stayed at home.” <em>(Give a morose bass grunt and frown.)</em></p>
  <p>Point to the next finger and say, with an insinuating tone and smile, elevating your eyebrows and bowing –</p>
  <p>3. “This little pig had roast beef” <em>(and add three quick little grunts of satisfaction.)</em></p>
  <p>Point to the next finger and say, in a voice just ready to cry –</p>
  <p>4. “This little pig had none.” <em>(Give two low grunts of weariness, and look ready to cry.)</em></p>
  <p>Then pointing to the little finger, say very pleasantly, in a shrill, droll voice, laughing meanwhile, “This little pig cried, ‘Tweak! tweak! tweak!'” pinching and twirling the child's finger gently, as if you had hold of the pig's tail.</p>
  <p>This makes a complete harmless drama of the story of the pigs, and rouses baby's feelings, sensations and ideas in a healthy manner. Five distinct emotions are raised: 1. Interest; 2. Fear; 3. Pleasure or sympathy; 4. Grief, almost to tears; 5. A sudden reversion to mirth, and “All's well that ends well,” a great desideratum in baby estimation. We must remember too, that the feelings during babyhood are ephemeral in the extreme, light and evanescent…</p>
  
</body>
</html>
