<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Git On Drayhorse</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-5890">Git On Drayhorse</h1>
  <p>Speaking of drayhorses, as we were <strong><a href="2011-01-20-retired-blacksmiths.xhtml" class="internal" title="Retired Blacksmiths!">yesterday</a></strong>, I could not help but notice that the phrase “Git on drayhorse” is an anagram of “Hooting Yarders”. This has the vexing implication that my average reader or listener is a git mounted on a drayhorse. One pictures a rustic lane along which a great grey drayhorse is plodding, atop which is a git, leafing through a copy of <em>Gravitas, Punctilio, Rectitude &amp; Pippy Bags</em> perhaps, or listening to my radio show on a pair of headphones jammed into their gitty ears.</p>
  <p>Now I do not wish to think of any Hooting Yard devotee as a git. Perhaps what we have here is akin to that phenomenon where otherwise staid and reasonable persons turn into psychotic maniacs when they get behind the driving wheel of a car. Does the placid and altogether lovely Hooting Yarder become a git at the moment of plopping in to the saddle of their great grey drayhorse? I suppose it is possible.</p>
  <p>Anagrammatic determinism being what it is, all I can do is to plead with my readers and listeners to find for themselves an alternative means of pulling their carts along the country lanes. Many of you will, I know, be toiling along those very lanes today, engarbed in peasant rags, transporting your carts piled high with rustic muck from one filthy field to another, or perhaps rolling in to a market square at the centre of a squalid hamlet. And what better way to pass the time, as the wind howls through the branches of larches and pines, than to read a tale from <em>Befuddled By Cormorants</em> or to listen on your iHoot to a morally instructive episode of <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em>? But doing so need not, must not, make you a git. So eschew your drayhorse, I beg of you, and if you cannot afford a fume-belching tractor, pull the damned cart yourself.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
