<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>News Of The World</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6864">News Of The World</h1>
  <p>With the demise of <del>a vile diet of moral squalor and pap</del> their favourite newspaper which they bought in their millions, no doubt the British working class are at last ready to heed Cornelius Cardew's stirring call-to-arms from 1979…</p>
  <p>All together now…</p>
  <div class="verse">
    <p>British ruling class puffed up with arrogance<br />
    Boasted that the sun shone on your vast empire<br />
    That sun has now eclipsed.<br />
    British ruling class, we have got news for you.<br />
    Your time has run out; You have got to go.</p>
    <p>Light is shining in the sky<br />
    Heralding the dawn of a glorious new day,<br />
    British working class you're the revolutionary force.<br />
    To build our socialist land.</p>
    <p>British working class you have a fine history<br />
    Fierce battles waged against a vicious enemy<br />
    With grim determination.<br />
    British working class aspires to revolution<br />
    In the face of attempt to crush this aspiration.<br />
    Of socialism in Britain</p>
    <p>Chorus</p>
    <p>In the 1840s Marx and Engels on our shores<br />
    Organised and hammered out the objective laws propelling history<br />
    Marxist-Leninist science is the guiding star<br />
    Charting the course of the working class:<br />
    Socialist revolution.</p>
    <p>Chorus</p>
    <p>Persisting in the face of every difficulty<br />
    In 1979 was formed our new party, a glorious victory.<br />
    Rallying to this flag is the only way, workers<br />
    To usher in, a bright new day of<br />
    Socialism in Britain.</p>
  </div>
  
</body>
</html>
