<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Intelligent Aerial Pig</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6547">Intelligent Aerial Pig</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Roll up, see this pig in the balloon basket!</p>
  <p>Any question you have, you must ask it.</p>
  <p>Within its brain sparks'll zag and zig.</p>
  <p>It is the Intelligent Aerial Pig.</p>
  <p>The balloon is up high so you'll have to shout</p>
  <p>Whatever your query, bawl it out.</p>
  <p>The pig will answer as best it is able</p>
  <p>And send its reply down the tethering cable.</p>
  <p>It taps its trotters on one end of the rope,</p>
  <p>Once for “Yes” and twice for “Nope”</p>
  <p>I feel the vibrations down here on the ground</p>
  <p>And tell you the answer in return for a pound.</p>
  <p>I spend all the profits on pigfeed and swill</p>
  <p>Bought from the farmyard just past yonder hill.</p>
  <p>That's where the pig has its earthly sty</p>
  <p>When not answering questions from its perch in the sky.</p>
  <p>So put your query, hand over your cash,</p>
  <p>Before the balloon comes down with a crash</p>
  <p>The Intelligent Pig will suffer no harm</p>
  <p>Or, if it does, I shall smear it with balm.</p>
  <p>Balloons tend to plummet if not kept aloft</p>
  <p>But all will be well if the landing is soft</p>
  <p>That's why I've strewn all these cushions and pillows</p>
  <p>Across the fields as far as those willows</p>
  <p>The willows that weep, that sob, that bewail</p>
  <p>When I end up being carted off to gaol</p>
  <p>Accused of being a scoundrel and rotter</p>
  <p>Pretending to count the taps of a trotter</p>
  <p>There's no pig up there borne by balloon</p>
  <p>It's as fanciful as the man in the moon</p>
  <p>But when I get out from my durance vile</p>
  <p>You'll see that my face bears a glittering smile</p>
  <p>I've had an idea that's sure to win big</p>
  <p>An <em>invisible</em> intelligent aerial pig.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
