<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>My Inner Glove Compartment</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6694">My Inner Glove Compartment</h1>
  <p>Since my appointment with a psychotherapist last week, I have been making strenuous efforts to get in touch with my inner glove compartment. To be honest, I didn't even know I had one. The psychotherapist, however, was quite sure. Her view was that only by allowing my inner glove compartment free rein could I find happiness, or, if not happiness, at least a measure of contentment with my lot. When I objected that, not being a car owner, I did not actually have an <em>outer</em> glove compartment, she waved her hand dismissively and said our session was at an end.</p>
  <p>The first step, I supposed, as I made my way home, was to visualise my inner glove compartment. I found this immensely difficult to do, not having an outer one to picture in my mind's eye. I thought about various cars I had sat in as a passenger and tried to summon up their glove compartments, but to no avail. This led me to question the pertinence of the psychotherapist's advice, but I had a whole week to get through before I saw her again, during which time I might suffer a complete mental collapse if I did not do as I was bid. Were I to dry myself in the air of crime, as Arthur Rimbaud once recommended, I could have stolen a car and claimed it as my own, and thus gained possession of a glove compartment. But I eschew criminality in all its forms, and I have never learned to drive, so that particular avenue was not open to me.</p>
  <p>What I did, when I got home, was to sit down at my metal tapping machine and send messages to everyone I knew who owned a car, asking them to furnish me with details of its glove compartment. The replies came in over the next couple of days, and from the details afforded to me I built up a mental picture of a sort of Ur-glove compartment. I next tried to imagine this being lodged inside me, in my brain, or my stomach, or my soul. The psychotherapist had not been specific about its location.</p>
  <p>I thought I was getting on quite well, and was certainly showing no signs of delirium or derangement or discontent. Then I happened to mention the business to a colleague, who suggested that it was perhaps the contents of the inner glove compartment, the stuff I had crammed into it, with which I needed to get in touch. This was a revelation which necessitated a further round of metal tapping machine messages. From the responses I received I was able to draw up a lengthy list of items. Granted, this was a list of the things my car-owning acquaintances kept in their actual glove compartments, rather than the contents of my own inner one, but it gave me something to work with. And work I did, my mental cogs whirring away, greased and thrumming.</p>
  <p>I was incapable, however, of reaching any sensible conclusions. I had a pretty good idea of the general shape and capacity of my inner glove compartment, and had filled it with a higgledy-piggledy collection of gubbins drawn from a <em>Dictionary Of Correspondences Between The Physical And Psychical Realms</em> by Blötzmann. Thus, for example, a spare set of car keys in the real world corresponded to a spare set of so-called “spiritual transportation hypnovehicle keys” in the kingdom of the mind, and a discarded toffee apple wrapper signified a “discarded mental wrapping, a bit sticky, and decisively crumpled”. This was all very well, but what did it mean? It wasn't my stuff after all, but the ethereal correspondents of my acquaintances' stuff.</p>
  <p>It dawned on me that in order to get in touch with my inner glove compartment I was going to have to have my own real, solid, physical glove compartment after all. Then I could shove various bitty-bobs into it, remove them, lay them out neatly on the kitchen table and check each one against its corresponding item in Blötzmann. I could not afford to buy a car, which in any case would be of no use to me, but perhaps I could pick up a secondhand glove compartment, salvaged from a pranged and crushed crashed machine. But where would I put it? Presumably a glove compartment would have to be inserted into a host of some kind to truly count as a glove compartment. Otherwise it might as well be an old shoebox or a carton. How much easier things would be if my psychotherapist had told me to get in touch with my inner shoebox!</p>
  <p>The more I thought about my inner shoebox, the more it appealed to me. Indeed, I was quite convinced that I was already in touch with it, with an intensity my psychotherapist would surely approve of. I thus consigned my inner glove compartment to oblivion, and dallied with it no more. That is probably why, before my next appointment, I suffered a complete mental collapse and was carted off to a grim bleak institution perched on a wild and windswept hillside. From my window, I look out upon a major arterial thoroughfare, along which, in both directions, cars zoom by. Each one, I know, has its own glove compartment, crammed with stuff, stuff of which I can but dream.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
