<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Anniversary</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-07T18:03:07" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-6402">Anniversary</h1>
  <p>'Twas on this day in the year Two Thousand and Four</p>
  <p>Mr Key came a-knocking at a filthy black door.</p>
  <p>The door was in Denmark Street off the Charing Cross Road</p>
  <p>Where the Sex Pistols rehearsed and punk rock did explode.</p>
  <p>But now behind the door was a radio station,</p>
  <p>By far the finest in the entire nation.</p>
  <p>For this was the home of Resonance FM,</p>
  <p>A radiophonic treasure, a jewel, a gem.</p>
  <p>As Mr Key did upon the black door knock</p>
  <p>The time was approaching four o clock.</p>
  <p>A buzzer buzzed, and in he stepped</p>
  <p>Into a hallway that had never been swept.</p>
  <p>Then through to a back room where laptops did hum</p>
  <p>“Mr Key” said a fellow, “Thank God you have come!”</p>
  <p>He was tall and bearded was this man,</p>
  <p>The then station manager Knut Aufermann.</p>
  <p>In a corner a bucket caught leaks from the ceiling</p>
  <p>And upon the walls the paint was peeling.</p>
  <p>It was a squalid place for sure</p>
  <p>(Resonance is not based there any more.)</p>
  <p>“I am here to broadcast my first ever radio show,”</p>
  <p>Said Mr Key. Said Knut “Yes, I know.</p>
  <p>You must clamber up that narrow stair</p>
  <p>And when you get to the top please beware</p>
  <p>The floor above is close to collapse</p>
  <p>It will last another year or two perhaps.”</p>
  <p>So up the stairs climbed Mr Key</p>
  <p>Where he met a man called Malachi.</p>
  <p>“Hello,” he said, “I'm your sound engineer.</p>
  <p>My job's to ensure the audience can hear</p>
  <p>The sensible prose you're going to spout</p>
  <p>As our transmitter beams it out</p>
  <p>To all four corners of the planetary sphere.</p>
  <p>It is nearly time, so sit down here.”</p>
  <p>He proffered a chair that was falling to bits,</p>
  <p>But Mr Key sat and gathered his wits</p>
  <p>He cleared his throat and tested the microphone</p>
  <p>And he started to speak in mellifluous baritone</p>
  <p>“This is Hooting Yard On the Air,” he said.</p>
  <p>Indeed it was. And those seven words led</p>
  <p>To seven whole years of Hooting Yard shows</p>
  <p>To hours and hours of lopsided prose</p>
  <p>For the moral instruction of a grateful nation</p>
  <p>On the world's most astonishing radio station.</p>
  <p>And the shows are not lost in the dust of the past</p>
  <p>Hundreds can be heard in the form of podcast</p>
  <p>Yet 'twas babble o' the future when he knocked on that door</p>
  <p>On the fourteenth of April, Two Thousand and Four.</p>
  <p class="textbreak"></p>
  <p>The first ever episode of <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em> will be repeated on <strong><a href="http://resonancefm.com/" class="external">Resonance104.4FM</a></strong> today ay 6.30 PM. A podcast will be available for download in the near future.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
