<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Notes On A Chuckle</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Notes On A Chuckle</h1>
  <p>Further to my <strong><a href="2011-11-12-dreaming-a-dream.xhtml" class="internal" title="Dreaming A Dream">report</a></strong>, last Saturday, of a <del>Facebook</del> Facecloth postage and subsequent comment, here is another. I will not be making a habit of this, but last night's brief exchange of comments with <strong><a href="http://ghostofelberry.wordpress.com/" class="external">Elberry</a></strong> is, I think, worth noting here.</p>
  <p>I chuckled at a comment I read appended to a postage on the Grauniad's Comment Is Free site, and so, on Facecloth, noted</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>A Comment Is Free comment over at The Grauniad&nbsp;: “Groan, and so the Guardian descends still further into being an upmarket version of Black Flag for the under 16s.” I chuckled.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>The subsequent dialogue with Elberry went as follows</p>
  <blockquote>
    <div class="blockparagraphs">
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: more on the nature of this chuckling please, the sound, duration, effect on passers-by, etc.</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em> : Grating and somehow tragic, forty-nine seconds, solicitude, offers of loose change, thumpings.</p>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: does it excite frenzies, sexual or otherwise?</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em> : Only in the raddled hearts of the unseemly</p>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: is it pure to the pure, if the pure are privy to these terrible eruptions?</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em>&nbsp;: Alas, there are tincts</p>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: would you consider removing these safeguards, so the many-headed rabble may hark to your mirth, and take heart therefrom?</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em>&nbsp;: I will consider it, while my head is upon the pillow, and I snooze, imminently</p>
    </div>
  </blockquote>
  <p>After tippy-tapping which, I retired to bed, rested my head upon the pillow, and snoozed. Alas, I did not after all consider removing any chuckle safeguards.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
