<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Further Notes</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Further Notes</h1>
  <p>That <strong><a href="2011-11-17-notes-on-a-chuckle.xhtml" class="internal" title="Notes On A Chuckle">conversation</a></strong>, continued…</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: what pillow do you use? is it stuffed with the feathers of birds or the skulls of mice?</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em> : An admixture of cotton wool and sand, wrens' feathers and wolf hair</p>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: and the sand, can you expand on its provenance? do you use the sand from the Alamogordo Test Range, or common or garden sand? is it related to the sand nightly deployed by the Sandman? Is it sand from the sandy road of Eliot's <em>Waste Land</em>?</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em>&nbsp;: It is coarse sand, dredged from the vasty deep, then spread out, by much raking, to dry under a Panglossian sun, before being poured into the pillowcase through a gorgeous ornate metalwork funnel</p>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: How do you do the dredging? Do you have an industrial dredging machine?</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em>&nbsp;: I use a mighty concrete dredger barge, built to Lambot's original design rather than the later Gabellini or Edison models.</p>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: i used to teach at Zeppelin, i think they make dredging machines but i am unsure if they are suitable for vasty deeps. Could you just use a spade? i ask as i thought about doing a bit of light dredging, to keep fit</p>
    <p><em>Frank Key</em>&nbsp;: Use of a spade beneath the vasty deeps is fraught with risk, but will undoubtedly boost your manliness. Or you might drown.</p>
    <p><em>Elberry</em>&nbsp;: Heroes don't drown, they dredge.</p>
  </blockquote>
  
</body>
</html>
