<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>P.P.S.</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>P.P.S.</h1>
  <p>Yesterday we learned that real men don't write <strong><a href="2011-04-18-p-s.xhtml" class="internal" title="P.S.">postscripts</a></strong>, and that “the apogee of superficiality” is to scribble a PS on the outside of an already-sealed envelope. Clearly this is something only a girly like “Case 11” would do. According to W L George, any man exhibiting such behaviour must be a mincing unmanly fop with an interest in the arts.</p>
  <p>But wait! His thesis is comprehensively demolished when we consider this passage from Richard Holmes's <em>The Age Of Wonder</em>, in an account of Mungo Park's second African expedition:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>The atmosphere among the surviving members of the expedition is caught in a letter which the cheery, hardbitten Captain John Martyn wrote… Finally <em>he added a scrawled note on the stained outer flap of his letter</em>, dated 4 November. It captures a soldier's-eye view of the British imperial mission. “PS Dr Anderson and Mills dead since writing the within—my head a little sore this morning—was up late last night drinking Ale with a Moor who has been at Gibraltar and speaks English—got a little tipsy—finished the scene by giving the Moor a damn'd good thrashing.”</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>[My italics.] Now, does hardbitten Captain Martyn sound like an effeminate prancing ninny? I think not. This whole matter of girly postscripts evidently requires further study.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
