<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Exercising The Cranial Integuments</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-7260">Exercising The Cranial Integuments</h1>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">If a thing is made of chocolate, comes from Switzerland, and is shaped like unto a roll, could it reasonably be anything other than a chocolate swiss roll?</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">So asks Atahualpa Tompkins in his runaway bestseller <em>Mind-Bending Brain-Teasers For The Cranial Integuments</em>, a collection of hundreds of equally diverting thought experiments. It's a fat book, as fat as the Bible, but not black like the Bible. In fact its cover comes in a variety of hues, shades of Tompkins' own devising, created from pigments unutterable.</p>
  <p>Another of his food-and-drink-based quizzums is:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">If it looks like an egg, and has its own nog, why is it not an egg nog?</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">The best way to read this book is one question at a time. I found, in foolishly trying to read a whole page-worth of queries at one sitting, that my brain overheated and vapours hissed out of my ears and I had to go and lie flat on my back in a pitch black room, pitch black like the Bible, for umpteen hours. “Umpteen”, incidentally, is a number that crops up umpteen times in the book, for example in this brain-teaser:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">If a he-man tosses umpteen medicine balls into a waiting bin, how big must the bin be to gather unto itself all those umpteen medicine balls tossed into it by the he-man?</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">You can see what I mean about the overheating and the vapours and the lying flat on one's back and the pitch black and the Bible.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/7260">[2011-09-12]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
