<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>On My Father</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-8077">On My Father</h1>
  <p>Today would have been my father's 87th birthday. In a change of tone from the usual Hooting Yard guff, here is a remembrance of him. Following Georges Perec's <em>Je me souviens</em> (1978) and Gilbert Adair's <em>Memories</em> (1986), I have written, in no particular order, a set of sentences each beginning “I remember…” There are fifty-eight in all, one for each year of his life. I wrote them at one sitting, as they bubbled to the surface. On another day I might write a different list of memories.</p>
  <p>1. I remember he smoked a cheap brand of cigarettes called Carlton Premium.</p>
  <p>2. I remember the <em>Evening Standard</em> ringing him up after he made disparaging remarks about Dr Rhodes Boyson, though I don't remember the context, or how the paper knew.</p>
  <p>3. I remember his love of crime fiction.</p>
  <p>4. I remember his love of football, and that—uniquely among aficionados of the game?—he did not support any particular team.</p>
  <p>5. I remember his hip-flask of Scotch.</p>
  <p>6. I remember seeing him cry only once, when talking about his father.</p>
  <p>7. I remember him using the nickname “Brucie” for my mother.</p>
  <p>8. I remember when his choice of hat convinced some of our neighbours that he was a Russian spy.</p>
  <p>9. I remember he read <em>The Guardian</em> and the <em>Morning Star</em>.</p>
  <p>10. I remember he always called <em>The Guardian The Manchester Guardian</em></p>
  <p>11. I remember him wandering around the house with a tea-towel over his shoulder calling out “Any more pots?”</p>
  <p>12. I remember he called Ready-Brek Fairex.</p>
  <p>13. I remember precisely the style of his spectacle-frames.</p>
  <p>14. I remember the way he referred to Norman St John Stevas as “Ste-VASS”.</p>
  <p>15. I remember that he subscribed to a Soviet propaganda magazine called <em>Sputnik</em>.</p>
  <p>16. I remember him dusting individually the books on the bookshelves.</p>
  <p>17. I remember his habit of cutting off the corners of dust-jackets where the price was shown.</p>
  <p>18. I remember him saying “The whole point is…”</p>
  <p>19. I remember his afternoon naps on the sofa.</p>
  <p>20. I remember his loud snoring</p>
  <p>21. I remember him saying “It's like Blackpool Illuminations” when a light was left on in an empty room.</p>
  <p>22. I remember his psoriasis.</p>
  <p>23. I remember him telling me that when he played football as a young man he was nicknamed “Twinkletoes”.</p>
  <p>24. I remember his hatred of Reginald Maudling but also his insistence, when Maudling died, that one should never speak ill of the dead.</p>
  <p>25. I remember his sentimentality.</p>
  <p>26. I remember that <em>Random Harvest</em> (Mervyn LeRoy, 1942) was his favourite film.</p>
  <p>27. I remember him taking me to a Manchester United match (at Upton Park?) and how his Manchester accent became unconsciously exaggerated when speaking to other fans.</p>
  <p>28. I remember him saying “daft as a Toc H Lamp”.</p>
  <p>29. I remember his puritanical streak.</p>
  <p>30. I remember his dismissal of anything other than the plainest foods as “foreign muck”.</p>
  <p>31. I remember him telling me how he had gone to the Chinese embassy to be given a free copy of Mao's Little Red Book (which I still have).</p>
  <p>32. I remember his fierce attachment to his mother.</p>
  <p>33. I remember him polishing his shoes.</p>
  <p>34. I remember that the bottle of Guinness he drank with his evening meal was “medicinal”.</p>
  <p>35. I remember kicking a football around in the garden with him.</p>
  <p>36. I remember when he wore a shirt with a collar that made him look like a priest.</p>
  <p>37. I remember his collection of cigarette cards.</p>
  <p>38. I remember the time he bought a hideous plastic rose in a glass globe as a birthday gift for my mother.</p>
  <p>39. I remember him as an educator.</p>
  <p>40. I remember him taking me to summer garden parties at the home of his colleague Mike Gibbs.</p>
  <p>41. I remember learning that he had been very ill and almost died shortly before I was born.</p>
  <p>42. I remember his brilliantine.</p>
  <p>43. I remember him mowing the lawn.</p>
  <p>44. I remember learning that he had all his teeth extracted at the age of thirty and had dentures fitted.</p>
  <p>45. I remember his friend Jim Spraggins.</p>
  <p>46. I remember him pontificating.</p>
  <p>47. I remember him showing me the “grooves” on his hands that were the first signs leading to a diagnosis of motor neurone disease.</p>
  <p>48. I remember his uxoriousness.</p>
  <p>49. I remember his infuriating habit of tidying that which was already tidy.</p>
  <p>50. I remember his insistence that one should always have an up-to-date atlas.</p>
  <p>51. I remember, when I boasted that I had dodged my bus fare, how he reprimanded me for my dishonesty, his clarity about right and wrong.</p>
  <p>52. I remember his supper of boiled egg and bread mashed into a pulp.</p>
  <p>53. I remember how he hated <em>Monty Python</em> but loved <em>Fawlty Towers</em>.</p>
  <p>54. I remember how he loved the <em>Carry On</em> films.</p>
  <p>55.I remember his postcard collection.</p>
  <p>56. I remember his big florid curly handwriting.</p>
  <p>57. I remember that he always wore a vest under his shirt.</p>
  <p>58. I remember clearly the last time I saw him, sitting at his desk, reading the paper, drinking whisky, on the morning of Monday 16 May 1983. He died two days later.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
