<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Important!</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-8370">Important!</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I bring you an important message from Ed Baxter, benign dictator of Resonance104.4fm, the home for the past eight years of the world's most Hooting Yardist radio programme, <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em>. Says Dr Baxter:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">Resonance 104.4fm's annual on-air fund raiser runs all this week till midnight on Sunday the 19th of February. If you love Resonance104.4fm and the broadcasts made by our astonishing array of presenters, please support us via a donation, pledge, bequest, gift or purchase from our shop. The&nbsp;alternative—for the station to take regular on-air advertising—is something we'd all prefer not to contemplate. But as it approaches its tenth anniversary Resonance urgently need funds to continue its work. Visit <strong><a href="http://resonancefm.com/" class="external">resonancefm.com</a></strong> to make a donation of any size. PLUS as usual we're having an auction of unique and wondrous items, with contributions from David Shrigley, Bob &amp; Roberta Smith, Glen Baxter and much more (rare records, wine, services, etc)—the list will grow as the week progresses.</p>
    <p>Visit <strong><a href="http://resonancefm.com/auction-2012" class="external">resonancefm.com/auction-2012</a></strong> and make a bid by emailing <a href="mailto:auction@resonancefm.com" class="external"><strong>auction@resonancefm.com</strong></a>.</p>
    <p>Or why not simply phone us with a pledge on 020 7407 1210?</p>
    <p>Many thanks.</p>
  </blockquote>
  
</body>
</html>
