<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Two Thousand</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-8365">Two Thousand</h1>
  <p class="noindent">And lo!, we come to the two thousandth postage at Hooting Yard. (Two thousand, that is, in the current format. There are an additional nine-hundred-and-fifty or so postages in the <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archive/" class="hootingyard">2003&nbsp;-2006 Archive</a></strong>.) I suggested divers methods of celebration when we hit <strong><a href="2012-02-13-two-thousand.xhtml" class="internal" title="One Thousand">one thousand</a></strong>, so you might want to go and read that.</p>
  <p>Now there are so many posts that, were each one a year, they would stretch back as near as dammit to the birth of Christ, I am minded to mark two thousand more quietly. Hooting Yard is, I hope, quite clearly a place for those intoxicated by love of words. So what better way to celebrate than with a quotation containing an extraordinary, and sadly neglected, coinage?</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">I retired myselfe among the merrie muses, and by the worke of my pen and inke, have dezinkhornifistibulated a fantasticall Rapsody of dialogisme, to the end that I would not be found an idle drone among so many famous teachers and professors of noble languages.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">That is from the preface to <em>Ortho-epia Gallica</em> by John Eliot (1593). According to Charles Nicholl,&nbsp;“the <em>Ortho-epia Gallica</em> is a curious and colourful work&nbsp;: ostensibly a language-manual, of the type very popular in cosmopolitan London, it turns out on closer inspection to be a lampoon of other language-manuals and of the foreigners who wrote them”.</p>
  <p>My source is Charles Nicholl's <em>A Cup Of News&nbsp;: The Life Of Thomas Nashe</em> (1984), wherein I also gleaned those other recent <strong><a href="2012-02-13-two-thousand.xhtml" class="internal" title="Nicknames">bits</a></strong> of <strong><a href="2012-02-13-two-thousand.xhtml" class="internal" title="On Pontiuses">Nashery</a></strong>.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/8365">[2012-02-13]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
