<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>On The Krummhorn Man</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-9793">On The Krummhorn Man</h1>
  <p>Here comes the Krummhorn Man.<br />
  He's had a palaver.<br />
  He has to solve acrostics for his mother.<br />
  She is blind, and so is her dog.<br />
  The dog's name is Spinach.<br />
  Spinach is a good name for a dog.<br />
  That's what mother thinks.<br />
  She is ninety now, and every domestic pet she has ever had since she was a tiny tot she has called Spinach.<br />
  The donkey, the hamster, a kitten, several goldfish, certain other types of fish, rabbits and budgerigars, all Spinaches.<br />
  This might be called monomania.<br />
  The Krummhorn Man looks kindly upon his mother.<br />
  He is a good son.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Take a look at him now, a shopping list scrunched in his fist, prancing up the street.<br />
  He is on his way to the butcher's.<br />
  The butcher is a caution.<br />
  He's Cyclopean and bears duelling scars.<br />
  Lit by the moon, he howls, a proper butcher's howl.<br />
  He keeps a vase of peonies on his mantel.<br />
  Oh for campions and oxlips!<br />
  Today it is sausages for the Krummhorn Man.<br />
  The sausages have the name of an English county.<br />
  The butcher, the butcher, the butcher with his meat-cleaver.<br />
  How sharp it is, and fearsome.<br />
  He whets the blade on a whetstone behind his kiosk.<br />
  You can hear the scree scree scree before dawn.<br />
  He wakes the town.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Sausages bought, on goes the Krummhorn Man, past the haberdasher and the aquarium.<br />
  Past all things.<br />
  Out into the gorse and nettles, followed by geese.<br />
  Like the Pied Piper of Hamelin.<br />
  But he is not pied and he has no pipe and it is not Hamelin.<br />
  It is an English county with the same name as the sausages.<br />
  Or it might be, if things fit neatly together.<br />
  He pops a boiled sweet into his mouth.<br />
  It is a spangle.<br />
  Invisible threads bind him to the past.<br />
  He smacks his lips.<br />
  The sound alerts an otter.<br />
  The Krummhorn Man shook off the geese and now he has an otter.<br />
  He sits down by the river.<br />
  He has to solve acrostics for his mother.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">The wind is fair, the wind is foul.<br />
  The Krummhorn Man throws in the towel.<br />
  It is carried downstream towards the sea.<br />
  The otter follows him back to mother.<br />
  Dog and otter in mother's parlour.<br />
  The one blind, the other not.<br />
  What a palaver.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Umbilically linked as once he was he makes a pot of tea.<br />
  He ties a knot in a dishcloth and chucks it out of the window.<br />
  And here comes Mister Snippage, toiling along the lane.<br />
  He is lame and pale and valiant.<br />
  What ho, what ho.<br />
  And tally tally ho too.<br />
  Then the Krummhorn Man makes himself scarce.<br />
  He takes himself to a place of defeat.<br />
  He leaves the sausages on the kitchen counter.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Where would he be if he were not here?<br />
  Over the sea and in a capital city loud with life.<br />
  Churning up the churnable, sparks and pangs, wearing a hat at a jaunty angle, getting into tangles, bumping things.<br />
  He peers into the distance through the mist.<br />
  The glue factory has closed down.<br />
  He keeps one arm in a sling for old time's sake.<br />
  He was once the invalids' invalid, just as the butcher is the butchers' butcher.<br />
  It says so on a sign on his wall.<br />
  There is a red wax seal embossed on it of heraldic significance.<br />
  Red wax too in the Krummhorn Man's hair.<br />
  A barber put it there for a prank.<br />
  Little gobbets, tiny orbs.<br />
  He is a very peculiar barber, shunned by many, and that is no surprise.<br />
  The barber is down a way from the butcher and the haberdasher and the aquarium, and around a corner, ever in shadow.<br />
  It is where they hold table-rapping meetings, with ectoplasm.<br />
  The Krummhorn Man sought his father there.<br />
  He is a good son.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Hedges flank the abandoned glue factory.<br />
  They have not been snipped for many a spring.<br />
  It is a place to pine.<br />
  There are still nozzles to be seen among the ruins.<br />
  The Krummhorn Man has his favourites.<br />
  He has snapped thousands of photographs with a long lens.<br />
  He used to use a Polaroid.<br />
  Polaroids and polar bears and polar wastes, he kept them together in his head.<br />
  It was a nice head, mother said.<br />
  It was the colour of curd.<br />
  The otter was gone from the parlour when he went back, bent on his sausages.<br />
  The fat sizzled in the pan.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Just then Mister Snippage came toiling back along the lane and began to pound on the door with his great hairy fists.<br />
  Spinach dragged his ancient canine bones to the doormat and dribbled.<br />
  At the same time the telephone rang and an alarm sounded.<br />
  It was pandaemonium.<br />
  The hospital helicopter was circling overhead.<br />
  There was gunfire coming from the hills.<br />
  It turned out to be a mock emergency, staged by actors.<br />
  Even Mister Snippage was not really Mister Snippage at all.<br />
  His part was played by an elfin amateur caked in makeup.<br />
  The sausages were burned black.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">See, see, the Krummhorn Man has set out again, in the rain, in the rain.<br />
  This time he has taken a pipe.<br />
  Its bowl is in the lee of the brim of his hat so the rain does not douse it.<br />
  But the shutters are down at the butcher's shop.<br />
  The butcher is gone for the day.<br />
  Where is he gone to?<br />
  That is what everyone is asking, in a huddle at his door.<br />
  Then the band strikes up that old traditional air “Butcher, Butcher, Where Have You Been?”<br />
  But until he comes back they will be in the dark.</p>
  <p><em>Butcher, butcher, where have you been?<br />
  Until I come back you will be in the dark.<br />
  Butcher, butcher, what have you seen?<br />
  I have seen a swan in a pond in the park.<br />
  Butcher, butcher, why is it dark?<br />
  Because the shutters are down on my shop on the street.<br />
  Butcher, butcher, will you ever come back?<br />
  I shall return with contaminated meat.</em></p>
  <p class="linebreaks">The Krummhorn Man goes home sausageless in the downpour.<br />
  He must solve acrostics for his mother.<br />
  Spinach is asleep in front of the fire.<br />
  He is dreaming a dog dream of triumph and vinegar.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
