<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Important Reader's Digest Correspondence</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Important <em>Reader's Digest</em> Correspondence</h1>
  <p class="noindent"><em>A letter arrives in the post:</em></p>
  <p>Dear Mr Key</p>
  <p>I was interested to read your <strong><a href="2012-05-11-on-brains.xhtml" class="internal" title="On Brains">comments</a></strong> about <em>The Readers' Digest</em>, which was a formative influence when I was growing up also. An ancient companion of my late grandmother lived with us, and was a subscriber: she would leave copies outside her door when she'd finished with them and we all pounced on them with glee. As well as the magazines, she received a 78 rpm record every month from some sort of listening-club associated with the publisher, and my brother and I were intrigued by these, as she never allowed us to hear them (though we endured endless Caruso, Bing Crosby and The Spooncat 5 on her wind-up gramophone). She explained that the <em>Readers' Digest</em> records always got broken in the post, and we never wondered why she didn't simply cancel the subscription.</p>
  <p>She's been gone for decades; but her wind-up gramophone remained, and when we were cleaning it up recently to send it to auction we found just one of those white-label <em>Readers' Digest</em> 78s, still extant in a thin drawer in the base of the machine. It's lo-fi stuff—and pretty tame these days—but I've recorded the ‘with vocal refrain’ section in hopes that it will be of interest to your readers. I used ‘declicking’ software to remove most of the surface hiss but there's no curing the damage at the end. Doubtless we have the Royal Mail to thank for that.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Best wishes<br />
  Roland Clare</p>
  <p>♫♫♫ <a href="../Media/2012-05-aunt-maud-78rpm.mp3" class="internal-audio">aunt-maud-78rpm</a> ♫♫♫</p>
  
</body>
</html>
