<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Seagulls And Hats</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Seagulls And Hats</h1>
  <p class="noindent"><em>Daily Mail</em> bashers like to trot out the newspaper's sympathetic line towards the Nazis in the run-up to the Second World War. It seems to me that this is now far too familiar a charge, and that if we are going to delve into history to find sticks with which to beat the paper, some fresh snippet is long overdue. I was pleased, therefore, to find this anecdote about Lord Northcliffe, the founder of the <em>Daily Mail</em>, in Piers Brendon's <em>Eminent Edwardians</em> (1979):</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">The campaigner against the use of birds' feathers to decorate women's hats once wantonly struck down a seagull with his stick and beat it to death on the sand.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">Incidentally, Northcliffe seems to have had a thing about hats. In 1910, he issued a directive to his editorial staff:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">It is about time men had a new hat. Why not offer £100 for the best design for a new hat? There is at present only the silk hat, the pot-hat or bowler (what in America is called a Derby), the straw hat, the felt hat of various shapes (usually referred to as the Trilby—I do not know why) and the universal cap. A new-hat-for-men competition would be most amusing . . . Let reference be made to hat monotony.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">Northcliffe would probably have been able to answer Peter Blegvad's <strong><a href="2012-07-13-on-uncanny-hats.xhtml" class="internal" title="On Uncanny Hats">questions about hats</a></strong>.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
