<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Attacked In Hammocks</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-9464">Attacked In Hammocks</h1>
  <blockquote>
    <p>10/20&nbsp;: Attacked in hammocks by tiny gnat not over one tenth of an inch in length; mosquito nets no protection; gnats bite all night allowing no sleep.</p>
    <p>10/21&nbsp;: Another sleepless night on account of blood-sucking gnats.</p>
    <p>10/22&nbsp;: My body mass of bumps from insect bites, wrists and hands swollen from bites of tiny gnats. 2 nights with almost no sleep—simply terrible. Rain during noon, all afternoon and most of night. My shoes have been soaked since starting. Worst ticks so far.</p>
    <p>10/23&nbsp;: Horrible night with worst biting gnats yet; even smoke of no avail.</p>
    <p>10/24: More than half ill from insects. Wrists and hands swollen. Paint limbs with iodine.</p>
    <p>10/25&nbsp;: Arose to find termites covering everything left on the ground. Blood-sucking gnats still with us.</p>
    <p>10/30&nbsp;: Sweat bees, gnats and “polverinahs” (blood-sucking gnats) terrible.</p>
    <p>11/2&nbsp;: My right eye is sadly blurred by gnats.</p>
    <p>11/3&nbsp;: Bees and gnats worse than ever; truly “there's no rest for the weary”.</p>
    <p>11/5&nbsp;: My first experience with flesh- and carrion-eating bees. Biting gnats in clouds—very worst we have encountered—rendering one's food unpalatable by filling it with their filthy bodies, their bellies red and disgustingly distended with one's own blood.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>from the 1920 Amazonian expedition diary of Ernest Holt, quoted in <em>The Lost City Of Z</em> by David Grann (2009)</p>
  
</body>
</html>
