<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Strangulated Hooting</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-8742">Strangulated Hooting</h1>
  <p>In the course of a blog postage recounting “A Day In The Life”, <strong><a href="http://outaspaceman.blogspot.co.uk/2012/03/day-in-life.html" class="external">Outa_Spaceman</a></strong> describes his experience of listening to yesterday's edition of <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em> on Resonance104.4FM, broadcast, as ever, live:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>Prep and light the fire, hang washing on clothes airer and get comfortable for Hooting Yard on the Air.</p>
    <p>Familiar strains of the Caucasian Lullaby fade into horrific coughing and spluttering, ‘Oh God’ intones the despairing voice of Mr. Key, Caucasian Lullaby cuts back in and plays for a distressingly long time. I begin to worry that I might actually have heard Mr. Key's last gasp. Caucasian Lullaby fades again and Mr. Key resumes the entertainment that I know and love as Hooting Yard on the Air.</p>
    <p>Write email to congratulate Mr. Key on best start (in hindsight) to Hooting Yard on the Air ever.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>I did indeed manage to time a fit of strangulated choking perfectly to coincide with the start of the programme. At 6.30 PM, I was fine and chipper. Ten or fifteen seconds later I was racked by heaving convulsive coughs and, as I signalled wildly for John, the sound engineer, to bring the music back up, I was unable to breathe. I then staggered out of the studio to the kitchen to get a beaker of water, where I heard, from the office above, the voice of Resonance supremo Ed Baxter calling “Terrific beginning to the show, Frank!”</p>
  <p>I gulped down water and gradually regained my composure. Such are the joys of live radio.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
