<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>La Yenka</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-10370">La Yenka</h1>
  <p>I am indebted to <strong><a href="http://outaspaceman.blogspot.co.uk/" class="external">Outa_Spaceman</a></strong> for drawing to my attention this paragraph of majestic sweeping prose:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>Since the emergence of the twist, inventing new dances proliferated: limbo, madison, whiskey, bycicle, Hully Gully, shake and an endless etcetera. In Spain also arise about native dances like the twist or when they, however, is the Yenka will be victorious in the making. A dance based on hopping on one foot to finish jumping with both feet together. The musical part of the case is a mere excuse to cause this kind of fun gymnastic jumping in guiding their activity. The four tracks on the album are quite similar and all are composed Kurt Charley. The instrumentation is a Franciscan poverty and is chaired by an instrument, which by the way, it became fashionable: the melodic. Was a smash hit and was one of the biggest selling records in 1965 and compulsory piece around or party shindig worth his salt. It sparked a fever Yenka nationwide, because it was an innocuous family dance and athletic. Other groups and soloists were ready to record songs to the rhythm of Yenka, so Hispavox was careful to place in all partner disks labeled: “The Yenka by its creators Johnny and Charley”</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>Hie over <strong><a href="http://bootsalesounds.blogspot.co.uk/2012/10/johnny-charley.html" class="external">here</a></strong> to see a snap of Johnny and Charley discussing Franciscan poverty.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
