<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Chaps Oozing Charm</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12067">Chaps Oozing Charm</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Further archival witterings, again from long ago in 2004. This was said to come from a collection called <em>The Vitamin B Pirate Gang &amp; Other Maritime Doggerel</em> by Gervase Beerpint, presumably some relation to your favourite poet and mine, Dennis Beerpint.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">Chaps oozing charm wedged in a chest.<br />
  There's no knowing who'll come out best.<br />
  One is called Billy, head made of cork,<br />
  Shoulders cast iron, arms and legs chalk.<br />
  Mythology enwraps him like a shroud.<br />
  His voice is grating and horribly loud.<br />
  And then there is Cedric, aquatic, with fins.<br />
  He likes to muck about with a box of pins.<br />
  He has no ears but his feet are huge.<br />
  His entire head is covered in rouge.<br />
  Hummingbirds pain him, as do owls.<br />
  He's always had trouble pronouncing vowels.<br />
  The third of our trio is Swivel-Eyed Dan.<br />
  His head is the shape of a frying pan.<br />
  He once went south, looking for bees,<br />
  But all his dreams blew away on a breeze.<br />
  You have to give credit where it's due –<br />
  But not to Dan when he's dribbling goo.<br />
  Three of them, then, wedged in a chest,<br />
  Each one wearing a red satin vest,<br />
  Oozing insouciance, polish, and charm.<br />
  Let us hope they come to no harm.<br />
  But the chest has been stowed in the hold of a ship<br />
  Whose captain is moody and curls his lip.<br />
  As they sail out from port, the captain growls:<br />
  “Damn the beakers! Damm the owls!<br />
  Damn the crackers! Damn the flaps!<br />
  Damn the chest of charming chaps!”<br />
  Two hours later, the ship just sank,<br />
  And all that remained was a single plank.<br />
  It floated for weeks and was then washed ashore.<br />
  I found it on the beach and used it for a door.<br />
  So when you come to my stinking hut,<br />
  Bringing some food for my stinking mutt,<br />
  Go careful by the door and remember your prayers:<br />
  “Get wedged in a chest, he who dares”.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/12067">[2013-10-13]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
