<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Tenth Anniversary (VII)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12174">Tenth Anniversary (VII)</h1>
  <p class="noindent"><em>Today's tenth anniversary piece is from Tuesday 24 March 2009, and is entitled</em> The Pavilion By The Shore.</p>
  <p>There is a pavilion by the shore. I do not go there any more. I used to visit every day on my clomping horse with its rattling dray, and I'd hammer my fists upon the door of the pavilion set beside the shore, but I do not go there any more. I cannot go there any more.</p>
  <p>I used to clomp along the lane lined by beech and larch and plane, but something went wrong in my brain and now I languish in the drain.</p>
  <p>I languish in a drainage ditch. I'm smeared with grease and tar and pitch. I've lost the use of my lower limbs and at the mercy of vermin's whims.</p>
  <p>All sorts of vermin suck my blood as I lie sprawling in the mud, and others gnaw my skin and bones while I groan my dramatic groans.</p>
  <p>Above me, a hot air balloon will be arriving very soon. I'll be winched up by a length of rope, and washed with disinfectant soap.</p>
  <p>The balloonist will sing rousing hymns to cure my withered lower limbs, and we'll hover in the boundless sky eating a snack of lemon meringue pie.</p>
  <p>Then I'll be dumped back on the lane, a few tweaks putting right my brain, and then I shall return once more to the bright pavilion by the shore.</p>
  <p>I'm sure there's something, before I go, that you are very keen to know. The balloonist's name—don't be a clot! It was Tiny Enid, the heroic tot!</p>
  
</body>
</html>
