<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Banished To A Pompous Land</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-11861">Banished To A Pompous Land</h1>
  <p>So resonant is the phrase “banished to a pompous land” that it was adopted by one expatriate Hooting Yard devotee as a pseudonym. You will, I trust, be familiar with Mr Banished not only for his comments here but for his own <strong><a href="http://banishedsbugs.blogspot.co.uk/" class="external">blog</a></strong>—where, in the sidebar, you will see the quotation from <em>A Lecture Delivered In The Big Tent At Hoon</em> where the phrase appeared.</p>
  <p>As far as memory served, this 1987 story was the only incidence of the phrase. However, while researching the <strong><a href="2013-08-15-bill-hatworn.xhtml" class="internal" title="Bill Hatworn">Bill Hatworn</a></strong> letters, I discovered this earlier usage, which I think dates from about 1984—almost thirty long, long years ago. It is a piece called <em>Golden Gate</em>, and is a good example of the kind of thing I was writing at that time, before the advent of the <strong><a href="2012-04-16-on-the-malice-aforethought-press.xhtml" class="internal" title="On The Malice Aforethought Press">Malice Aforethought Press</a></strong>. Make of it what you will.</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>Banished to a pompous land where I knew no one, I set about mending my ways. There were flags to be darned, ceremonial shields to be polished, hospitality to be dispensed. At night, I was seconded to stand guard at a gateway. The gateway was made of solid gold. It was enormous. I sat hunched on a wooden stool, alert and eagle-eyed. I brandished my pike at the hint of a passer-by. But few passed by, and in the tiny hours I pondered, and pondered hard. There was me, felon, rascal, thief, and behind my back a gigantic gateway cast in gold. One night, I took a rasp. All was dark and still as I began to shave the gold from the gate. At dawn, my satchel held a cellophane packet of gold, and each night I added packet after packet. It is dawn again now. In an hour, they will take me away and behead me.</p>
  </blockquote>
  
</body>
</html>
