<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Hallucinating Hoon Hospital In-Patient's Diary 27.1.12</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-10920">Hallucinating Hoon Hospital In-Patient's Diary 27.1.12</h1>
  <p><em>The diary of a hallucinating in-patient at the Hoon Hospital, on this day one year ago:</em></p>
  <p class="linebreaks">I woke up this morning with a head full of verse<br />
  And at once I called out to the stationery nurse<br />
  “Bring me pencil and paper and pray don't delay<br />
  For I have significant things I must say.<br />
  In my dreams I've had insights both deep and poetic!”<br />
  But the nurse dosed me up with a powerful emetic<br />
  And I vomited my breakfast before I'd even eaten<br />
  A splurge all eggy and branny and wheaten.<br />
  “Lie back,” said the nurse, “Let your ravings cease.<br />
  You are in the throes of a terrible disease.<br />
  That's why you're in hospital, you foolish clot.”<br />
  And she felt my forehead and my forehead was hot.<br />
  “But where is my pencil and where is my jotter?”<br />
  I cried as my forehead grew hotter and hotter<br />
  Then doctors swept in and prodded my head<br />
  And I let out a groan and sank back on the bed.<br />
  But inside my brain the verses came teeming<br />
  Of Zeinab Badawi, Anna Ford, and Jan Leeming,<br />
  Of television newsreaders no longer seen<br />
  Reading the news on the television screen,<br />
  Reginald Bosanquet, often drunken and earthy,<br />
  Where now we have bumptious Krishnan Guru-Murthy.<br />
  Then my head emptied out and I fell into swoon<br />
  In my hospital bed in the clinic at Hoon.<br />
  So the world must cope somehow without my verse<br />
  Is that a blessing or is it a curse?<br />
  “A blessing for sure” said a voice stern and grim.<br />
  “You're not Dennis Beerpint, you just think you're him.”<br />
  I woke. It was true. I'm not Beerpint at all.<br />
  I turned to gaze at the white clinic wall.<br />
  Then the nurse announced it was time for my bath<br />
  “By the way.” she said, “Nor are you Sylvia Plath.”</p>
  
</body>
</html>
