<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Smokers' Poptarts!</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-11856">Smokers' Poptarts!</h1>
  <p class="noindent">My recent lassitude—which I think is now behind me—was occasioned in part by ResonanceFM's August break. I realise that having to babble into a microphone for half an hour every week is an effective spur to composition, and without that deadline I can happily gaze out of the window at crows and Not Get Anything Done.</p>
  <p>(Oh, by the way, throughout the month ResonanceFM is broadcasting old episodes of Hooting Yard <strong><a href="http://resonancefm.com/schedule" class="external">daily</a></strong> at 12.30 PM, so that should help to keep you lot from chewing your pillows in anguish.)</p>
  <p>Anyway, just as I was sloughing off my indolence and clambering back into my toboggan o' prose, I was further inspired by being asked to write a piece for another blog. Meeting someone else's deadline always concentrates the mind.</p>
  <p>So over at <strong><a href="http://blackberryjuniperandsherbet.blogspot.co.uk/2013/08/bjs-solsl-hooting-yard-is-opening-post.html" class="external">BlackberryJuniper &amp; Sherbet</a></strong> you can read a brand new piece—written yesterday—together with a little introduction explaining why I was asked, and one reader's understanding of the Glory That Is Hooting Yard. Off you go!</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/11856">[2013-08-17]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
