<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>English Heads</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12108">English Heads</h1>
  <blockquote>
    <p class="noindent">The following is a comparative estimate of the dimensions of the Head of the inhabitants in several counties of England.</p>
    <p>The male Head in England, at maturity, averages from 6 and a half to 7 and five-eighths inches in diameter; the medium and most general size being 7 inches. The female head is smaller, varying from 6 and three-eighths to 7 or 7 and a half inches, the medium male size. Fixing the medium of the English head at 7 inches, there can be no difficulty in distinguishing the portions of society above from those below that measurement.</p>
    <p><em>London</em> – The majority of the higher classes are above the medium, while among the lower it is very rare to find a large head.</p>
    <p><em>Spitalfields Weavers</em> have extremely small heads, 6 and a half, 6 and five-eighths, 6 and three-quarter inches being the prevailing admeasurements.</p>
    <p><em>Coventry</em>—Almost exclusively peopled by weavers; the same facts are peculiarly observed.</p>
    <p><em>Hertfordshire, Essex, Suffolk,</em> and <em>Norfolk</em> contain a larger proportion of small heads than any part of the empire; Essex and Hertfordshire particularly. 7 inches in diameter is here, as in Spitalfields and Coventry, quite unusual. 6 and five-eighths or 6 and a half are more general; and 6 and three-eighths, the usual size for a boy of six years of age, is frequently to be met with here in the full maturity of manhood.</p>
    <p><em>Kent, Surrey</em>, and <em>Sussex</em>—An increase of size of the usual average is observed; and the inland counties, in general, are nearly upon the same scale.</p>
    <p><em>Devonshire</em> and <em>Cornwall</em> – The heads of full sizes.</p>
    <p><em>Herefordshire</em>—Superior to the London average.</p>
    <p><em>Lancashire, Yorkshire, Cumberland,</em> and <em>Northumberland</em> have more large heads, in proportion, than any part of the country.</p>
    <p><em>Scotland</em>—The full-sized head is known to be possessed by the inhabitants; their measurement ranging between 7 and three-quarters and 7 and seven-eighths even to 8 inches. This extreme size, however, is rare.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p class="noindent">John Timbs, <em>Things Not Generally Known</em> (1860)</p>
  
</body>
</html>
