<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Book</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>The Book</h1>
  <p class="noindent">So … this <strong><a href="2013-10-16-sparse-potsages.xhtml" class="internal" title="Sparse Potsages">book</a></strong> I am working on, due out next year. It will be a whole volume of Brief Lives, as posted recently in <strong><em><a href="http://thedabbler.co.uk/tag/brief-lives/" class="external">The Dabbler</a></em></strong>. As I explained there, the entries are not really “lives”, in the sense of potted biographies, but a single snippet about each subject, which could be an amusing or bemusing fact, an anecdote, a quotation by or about the person, or in some cases simply the preposterously lengthy title of a book they have written, as in this case:</p>
  <p><strong>Mowbray, Jay Henry</strong> (American writer, 20th century). Mowbray was the author of the 1912 book <em>Sinking Of The “Titanic”, Most Appalling Ocean Horror With Graphic Descriptions Of Hundreds Swept To Eternity Beneath The Waves; Panic Stricken Multitude Facing Sure Death, And Thrilling Stories Of This Most Overwhelming Catastrophe To Which Is Added Vivid Accounts Of Heart-Rending Scenes, When Hundreds Were Doomed To Watery Graves, Compiled From Soul Stirring Stories Told By Eye Witnesses Of This Terrible Horror Of The Briny Deep.</em></p>
  <p>Much of the material I have gathered thus far (including Mowbray) lies buried deep within the Hooting Yard archives, but of course my research is taking me further afield, to dusty tomes on library shelves. And you lot can be of assistance, by bringing to my attention bits and bobs of information that deserve a place in the book.</p>
  <p>The criteria for entries are that they are&nbsp;: amusing or bemusing (or both) ; true, or at least attested as true by a reliable source ; not widely known (though I realise that is a subjective judgement) ; and, oh, there was a fourth, but I cannot recall what it was.</p>
  <p>I know all of you will be panting with eagerness to assist Mr Key in his endeavours, and all assistants will be thanked by name in the book. Please send your suggestions to <strong>hooting [dot] yard [at] gmail [dot] com</strong>. As this will be a scholarly work of reference, please give details of your sources.</p>
  <p>Meanwhile, here, for your amusement, is another brief life lugged out of the archives:</p>
  <p><strong>Nazário de Lima, Ronaldo Luís</strong> (Brazilian footballer, b. 1976). During a football match in 2009, referring to a footballer named Rolando, a television commentator wondered “how long is it since Ronaldo was marked by an anagram of himself?”</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/12074">[2013-10-18]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
