<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Where Are The Snows Of Yesteryear?</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-13116">Where Are The Snows Of Yesteryear?</h1>
  <p>Until <strong><a href="2014-08-26-ou-sont-les-neiges-dantan.xhtml" class="internal" title="Où sont les neiges d'antan?">yesterday</a></strong>, the snows of yesteryear were being kept in bins in a remote and refrigerated storage facility. Due to a security alert, however, the bins were moved during the night. A fleet of trucks ferried the snow, in the bins, to a secret location. The trucks were refrigerated as, too, we must assume, is the secret location. Because it is secret, I cannot tell you where it is. I don't even know myself. But what this means is that we cannot answer the question, <em>where are the snows of yesteryear?</em></p>
  <p>Obviously we can answer that they are in a secret, refrigerated, location, but that is hardly satisfactory. The more persistent reporters from the winter weather phenomena press are unlikely to return to their igloo offices only to face the wrath of their white-bearded, icicle-strewn editors. No, they will think up ever more cunning ways to phrase their questions, hoping to trip up the snow authorities.</p>
  <p><em>The snows of yesteryear, where are they?</em>, they might ask, or <em>Yesteryear, the snows of, whatever happened to them?</em> Sooner or later a dimwit on the panel will blurt out the precise coordinates of the secret location, and frenzy will ensue.</p>
  <p>Snow frenzy is akin to snow fury, and we are reminded of the bestselling paperback <em>Like A Woman Scorn'd</em> by Ella Snowfury. It was in fact by Pebblehead, writing under a pseudonym. There is a rogue edition purporting to be by Ella Thnowfury, copies of which have fetched sums as high as 15 New Pence on eBay.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
