<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lobster News</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Lobster News</h1>
  <p>Nappa Gisburn brought to my attention a television programme entitled <em>Lobstermen&nbsp;: Jeopardy At Sea</em>, screened on something called the Quest Channel. I did not see it, but then, as Mr Gisburn himself noted, it was probably less exciting than its title promised.</p>
  <p>It served to remind me, however, that some years ago I encouraged readers to join the <strong><a href="2010-04-17-adopt-a-lobster.xhtml" class="internal" title="Adopt A Lobster">Adopt A Lobster</a></strong> scheme. Some of you in fact did so, and have the <strong><a href="2010-04-25-babinsky-and-bobnit-tivol.xhtml" class="internal" title="Babinsky And Bobnit Tivol">certificates</a></strong> to prove it. What I find both worrying and perplexing is that nobody seems ever to have received any news of their lobster. Much as I would like to think that Babinsky and Bobnit Tivol and Tiny Enid are scuttling happily across the ocean floor, snapping their claws at minnows, I just don't know, and it's the not knowing that leads me to lie awake at night, thrashing around on my pallet, biting my pillow, and generally making a sorry spectacle of myself.</p>
  <p>Readers will recall that I undertook a special <strong><a href="2011-09-06-lobster-research.xhtml" class="internal" title="Lobster Research">study</a></strong> of lobsters and consider myself, if not an expert, than certainly as someone qualified to embark on a worldwide lecture tour, all expenses paid. Should you, or anybody you know, wish to invite me to some far-flung yet luxurious corner of the globe, and to put me up in an exquisite hotel for a week, I will be happy to deliver a five- or ten-minute unillustrated lecture on lobsters while waving my arms about in a foolish, hysterical manner.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
