<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Sinbad Hoonjaw</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12422">Sinbad Hoonjaw</h1>
  <p>Sinbad Hoonjaw ran amok. He fried some bean sprouts in a wok. And then he stuffed them in a sock, for he is quite the nutter.</p>
  <p>Sinbad Hoonjaw went astray. He lay down on a bale of hay. He ate a bowl of Special K, then threw up in the gutter.</p>
  <p>Oh dearest Sinbad, take this clump, a clump of posies for your sprains, I plucked it at the council dump, oh dear dear Sinbad rattle your chains.</p>
  <p>The finest fellow that ever there was, I sing for Sinbad today because Sinbad Hoonjaw's eyes are blue, and the number of eyes is thirty-two.</p>
  <p>Thirty-two eyes? Can that be so? And twenty feet from top to toe? A giant Sinbad with too many eyes? Or is it just a clever disguise?</p>
  <p>Is he a dwarf in a paper suit? Does anybody give a hoot? You say he's twee, you say he's cute. For he is Sinbad Hoonjaw.</p>
  <p>But I have news you'll hate to hear. He is about to disappear. Oh do not sob a salty tear. Weep not for Sinbad Hoonjaw.</p>
  <p class="linebreaks">He was only ever a clutch of syllables, jaw and bad and hoon and sin.<br />
  Now spit them out and into the bin.<br />
  The dustbin of words, where you forage for meaning,<br />
  Like George Formby, while window-cleaning.<br />
  You're up so high where the air is thin<br />
  Now spit the words out into the bin.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
