<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Toots</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-13193">Toots</h1>
  <p>Toots clattered up to the post office counter, sore perplexed.</p>
  <p>“Hello Toots, what can I do for you today?” said the friendly postmaster.</p>
  <p>“I am sore perplexed,” said Toots, “I have lost my Maytals.”</p>
  <p>The postmaster was hard of hearing, and had been ever since a traumatic childhood incident when he was inadvertently placed in too close proximity to a klaxon for the duration of a lengthy Communist Party rally.</p>
  <p>“If you have lost your marbles, Toots, you'll be wanting a psychiatrist, not the postal service.”</p>
  <p>Toots repeated himself, louder, and with exaggeratedly precise movements of his lips.</p>
  <p>“Oh I see,” said the postmaster, “But what makes you think I can be of any assistance?”</p>
  <p>Toots went on to explain his belief that the postal service, engaged as it was in the great work of sending and delivering sundry items all around the world, was the obvious agency to consult if one wished to track down something lost, in this case his Maytals. The postmaster took his point, with certain reservations which he kept to himself.</p>
  <p>“I will keep a lookout for them, Toots,” he said.</p>
  <p>Toots, whose sore perplexity was now etched deeper than ever upon his countenance, was dissatisfied with this response.</p>
  <p>“Are you not able to do something more than that?” he screeched, alarming, in the queue behind him, several persons among whom was a skivvy from the Big House up on the hill. The postmaster asked, not unreasonably, what Toots would have him do.</p>
  <p>“Some kind of tracking,” said Toots, “With post office dogs, bloodhounds, tracking, or tagging, the sending of telegrams or telegraphs, uniformed post office runners, I don't know, notices slapped up in post offices across the land, vans scouring the countryside, the full weight of the postal service thrown behind the search … “</p>
  <p>“Let me stop you there,” said the postmaster, “While I serve this skivvy from the Big House.”</p>
  <p>Toots slumped in a corner of the post office, woebegone and weeping. The skivvy bought a single postage stamp, plopped it into a pocket of her apron, and trudged out and along the street past the haberdashery and the butcher's and the fairy grotto, over the bridge across the canal and along the lane through the spinney up the hill to the gaunt iron gates of the Big House, along the path by the turnip beds and the stone statues of daredevil wartime aeroplane pilots, across the lawn and down the alley along the side of the house, in through a door tucked almost imperceptibly in a porch, down a flight of stairs into a gloomy corridor, until she reached the door of her scullery. She took from a different, deeper pocket of her apron a huge iron key, inserted it into the lock, turned it, and pushed the door open. In the pitch black of the scullery she heard the sudden rattling of chains and fetters. Locking the door behind her, she flicked a switch, and a lightbulb on the ceiling cast a dim glow, revealing a huddle of ska musicians, chained and fettered.</p>
  <p>“I have pots and pans to scrub,” she announced, “So, my Maytals, play your ska music to cheer me in my chores!”</p>
  <p>And soon enough the scullery was loud and joyful with the strains of “Monkey Man”.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
