<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Whither Art?</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-13572">Whither Art?</h1>
  <p><em>Whither art?</em> It's a question I often ask myself, usually when tucking into a plate of smokers' poptarts or other breakfast-based snack food. I like to get art out of the way early on in the day, freeing up my time for higher things. I do not practise art myself, but it is a subject of abiding interest to me. <em>Whither art?</em>, I ask, wondering where it will go.</p>
  <p>To answer that question, one must of course be familiar with where art has been. One follows its trajectory, from the earliest cave paintings to the latest talentless derivative didactic Marxist video installation bollocks, and one tries to push the line further along, to see whence it leads. Every morning, at breakfast.</p>
  <p>Sometimes, alas, those smokers' poptarts are just too damned delicious, and the brain that ought to be cogitating upon the future of art is instead benumbed in a lovely haze of gustatory bliss. At such times, all thoughts of art fly away, like unto a flock of starlings, and instead I ponder the sheer genius of modern breakfast snack food manufacturing processes.</p>
  <p>But the next morning, after a day devoted to the higher things, things such as prayer and beekeeping and shove ha'penny, I return to that burning question, <em>whither art?</em>, as a dog returns to its vomit, and I wrestle with it, at least until breakfast is digested.</p>
  <p>Very occasionally, when for example I have a stomach upset, I do not ask <em>whither art?</em>, but instead declaim, in a booming tone, <em>wither, art!</em> I curse art and I envision a glorious new world where art curdles and shrivels until at last it is gone, all of it, forever. But of course we know full well, all that truly withers is Googie (1917—2011).</p>
  
</body>
</html>
