<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Foiled Heist!</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12336">Foiled Heist!</h1>
  <p>Earlier today I had an errand to do which involved taking a rather large sum of cash to the bank. (My idea of what constitutes a “large sum” may not be yours.) Pansy Cradledew fretted that I might be waylaid by malefactors and ne'er-do-wells, so when I got back—safe and sound—I sent her a reassuring message. I swear on my mother's life* that every word of this is true.</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>Just a note to let you know that as I was leaving the bank, several chaps in stocking masks burst in waving firearms and shouting at everyone to get on the floor. I executed a quick <em>tableau vivant</em> of a scene from <em>Die Hard</em> (John McTiernan, 1988), and the villains were so awestruck by the verisimilitude of my pose that they were stunned, staring goggle-eyed and dropping their guns. After that it was a simple enough matter to summon Detective Captain Cargpan and his rufty tufty henchmen, who placed them under arrest while I sashayed off to catch the bus.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p><strong>*NOTA BENE&nbsp;:</strong> Ms Cradledew has asked me to point out that my mother died twenty years ago, a fact which she says utterly invalidates my swearage. That may well be so, but I know my onions.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
