<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Fig And Soup And Mop And Git</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12228">Fig And Soup And Mop And Git</h1>
  <p>There was a fig in my soup. I had not expected one.</p>
  <p>Oh waiter, I said, gesturing the meanwhile with my outstretched hand in which I held the soup-spoon, waiter, this fig, is it intentional?</p>
  <p>The waiter came barrelling over, he was a rotund waiter but moved at speed.</p>
  <p>Sir, you are dribbling soup on to the floor with your spoon. It will need mopping up, he said.</p>
  <p>That's quite enough backtalk from you, I said, What I want to know is whether this fig, look!, this fig in my soup is meant to be there.</p>
  <p>I would thank sir to be more polite, said the waiter, and do you know what?, he clouted me on the head with his great hairy fist.</p>
  <p>I was nonplussed. First I had been nonplussed by the fig in my soup, now I was further nonplussed by the clout. Before I could gather my wits, the waiter, who had barrelled away, came barrelling back, holding a mop.</p>
  <p>Sir will mop up the dribbled soup and we may then discuss the fig, he said.</p>
  <p>What kind of cafeteria was this? I thought the words but did not say them. I had not yet pulled myself together from my nonplusment and there was a ringing in my ear from where the clout had landed.</p>
  <p>But it was a pertinent question, one I will strive to answer once I have recovered from the many bumps and bruises I sustained after flatly refusing to deploy the mop, whereupon several other waiters appeared, as if from nowhere, and I was subjected to much clouting and thumping before being frogmarched out onto the street, or rather mews, and dumped into a puddle, there to be spat upon by a passing horse, whose drover gave me a kicking for good measure, the drover having a familial connection with at least two of the waiters, all of whom had gone back into the cafeteria, chuckling and muttering to themselves, the words <em>fig</em> and <em>soup</em> and <em>mop</em> and <em>git</em> clearly audible, even with the ringing in my ears, yes, ears, for both now were ringing what with the additional clouts and thumps I had received, for no other crimes than querying the fig in my soup and remonstrating with the waiter for his impertinence, to speak to a gentleman so, and then, by heaven!, to clout him.</p>
  <p>What kind of cafeteria was it? What kind of world is it?</p>
  
</body>
</html>
