<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Ten Years Ago</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12729">Ten Years Ago</h1>
  <p class="noindent">On this day, exactly ten years ago, on 14 May 2004, I posted this on Hooting Yard:</p>
  <p><strong>BASHFUL COCTLOSH TRAUMA SURGEON</strong></p>
  <p>Being the title of a novel by Maisie Pew, due to be published in September. It is a book of ten chapters, their titles being:</p>
  <p>I. The Gelignite Zombie Person From Didcot</p>
  <p>II. Pudding Time</p>
  <p>III. Paste, Then Gruel</p>
  <p>IV. Our Hero, Dr Slab, Goes Haywire</p>
  <p>V. Being A Chapter In Which Lovecraftian Shudders Are Experienced By A Barnyard Person And A Ferocious Bat-Being</p>
  <p>VI. Tord Grip</p>
  <p>VII. The Other Gelignite Zombie Person From Didcot</p>
  <p>VIII. That Sinuous L'Oreal Toss Of The Hair Performed By A Pirate Gang</p>
  <p>IX. Shoes? Boots? String?</p>
  <p>XII. Mild Peril Fop Dilemma</p>
  <p>Long-term readers, and those with their wits about them, will know that, contrary to my claim, no such book was ever published. This is because (a) I made it up, and (b) “Maisie Pew” did not then, and does not now, exist. I made her up too. Of course, I could have written <em>Bashful Coctlosh Trauma Surgeon</em> myself, and I may even have planned to, but I never did. I still could. I rather fancy it would be a pulpy potboiler. If I followed the practice of certain eminent pulp writers, I might be able to bash it out in a week or so. The thing to do would be to start typing and not fret too much about felicities of style and wotnot.</p>
  <p>Incidentally, for those who care about such matters, “Coctlosh” was a sort of proto-Hooting Yard, or proto-Pointy Town. It was a fictional location which was the setting for a few stories I wrote as long ago as the late 1970s, each of which featured Josef Bong. Mr Bong was stolen from <em>The Good Soldier Švejk</em> by Jaroslav Hašek, where he is mentioned, just once, in passing, in—I recall—a newspaper cutting, where he is described as a “Brave Driver” (of a train). My Josef Bong rode a horse, mounted upon which he arrived in Coctlosh in the first of the stories, on a blistering hot day. I do not remember much else about these ancient texts, which are—alas—lost. Burned, I think, in a frenzy, long ago.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
