<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>BamBam Goes Haywire</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-13252">BamBam Goes Haywire</h1>
  <p class="noindent">On Thursday morning, BamBam went haywire. That is all I am prepared to say on the subject. You may have questions, such as who or what is BamBam?, what is the etymology of the word <em>haywire</em>?, and so on, but quite frankly it is not up to me to spoonfeed you. I fail to see why you should not do your own research into these matters, thus freeing me for more important tasks, such as taking a well-earned nap, smoking a gasper while gazing out of the window, or stuffing my gob with a pile of Smokers' Poptarts. Any of those choices would be a better use of my time than telling you about BamBam going haywire.</p>
  <p><em>Oh please please Mr Key!</em>, I hear you wail, <em>Do tell us more!</em> To which I reply, certainly not. At most, I might give you some pointers to help you conduct your own research. For the etymology of the word <em>haywire</em>, I can think of no better reference source than the <em>Oxford English Dictionary</em>. Oh, wait, I <em>can</em> think of a better source—Dobson's pamphlet <em>Everything You Ought To Know About Hay, And Words Beginning With Hay-</em> (out of print). In fact I am surprised not to have recommended this pamphlet to you before. It is the most haycentric of all Dobson's works, and its first edition, of ten Gestetnered copies, actually had a cover to which strands of real hay were affixed, with glue. This had the unfortunate effect of partly obscuring the title, with the result that the pamphlet sold even fewer copies than was usually the case.</p>
  <p>If you do your research thoroughly, you will probably be exhausted by the time you are fully conversant with the word <em>haywire</em>. Your head will be so crammed with new and exciting information that there will be no room left to add anything at all. That being so, it seems rather pointless for me to tell you where you could discover further information about BamBam. Nevertheless, there will always be two or three scallywags who don't know when to stop, who will plough on regardless. Such persons are very exasperating, like hyperactive tots, and should not be encouraged. I find the best way to deal with them is to administer a dose of Ox-Stun, a proprietary tranquiliser more commonly used to stun oxen, at such times as one needs to stun oxen, which, depending on circumstances, can be every Thursday morning or once in a blue moon.</p>
  <p>Now, everybody sing along&nbsp;: <em>Blue moon, You saw me standing alone Without a dream in my heart Without a love of my own…</em></p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/13252">[2014-10-03]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
