<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Word Of The Day&nbsp;: Glue</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-12842">Word Of The Day&nbsp;: Glue</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Word of the day&nbsp;: Glue.</p>
  <p>Today I want to look at the word <em>glue</em>. I also want to take the opportunity to mop up the two earlier words of the day I have not yet had a chance to examine, <em>boggle</em> and <em>clunk</em>. <em>Mop</em>, incidentally, is a fine word in itself, so let us pencil that in for tomorrow. And while we are about it, let us pencil in <em>pencil</em> for the day after tomorrow.</p>
  <p>In the meantime, I have received yet another letter from Wlad Onanugu. I presume it is another bit of wittering about <em>parp</em>. I cannot say for sure, because—with iron in my soul—I have thus far made a titanic effort not to open it, and thus have not yet read it. Perhaps I never will. I might shove it, unopened, into my wastepaper basket, from whence it will be tipped along with all sorts of other papery detritus, into a great roaring furnace, when I have located such a furnace.</p>
  <p>I ought to make it clear that it is not my habit to treat all correspondence from readers so shamefully. Usually, I pore over your letters, rereading them a couple of times, until I have winkled from them every last drop of whatever it is they contain—wisdom, wit, top tips, a scattering of breadcrumbs—and then I chew the end of my pencil before scribbling a response. If you take the trouble to write, I ought to take the trouble to reply. So I have terrible misgivings about Mr Onanugu's latest missive. But quite honestly, if I have to bang on about <em>parp</em> yet again, this series is never going to get anywhere.</p>
  <p>After I wrote that paragraph, my terrible misgivings got the better of me, and I decided after all to open, and read, Mr Onanugu's letter. If it turned out to be all about <em>parp</em> again—and <em>toot</em> and <em>hooter</em> and <em>tots</em>—then so be it. I would frame a response which, I hoped, would dissuade my pesky correspondent from ever putting pencil to paper again for so long as he lived.</p>
  <p>As I reached across my desk for the letter, however, I knocked over an opened can of Squelcho!, from which I had taken only a single dainty glug, with the result that I ended up with a puddle of fizzy luminous highly-coloured chemically-enhanced liquid on the floor. I was not entirely sure how high its acidic content was, but I feared it might start eating through the floorboards, like the blood of the alien in <em>Alien</em> (Ridley Scott, 1979). So at once I fetched a mop to mop it up. See what a great word <em>mop</em> is? It is both a noun and a verb. One mops with a mop. And I won't even begin to talk about Beatle-hair!</p>
  <p>Anyway, I was so exhausted after my mopping (with a mop!) that I had to go and take a nap. Which means that I will have to set aside <em>boggle</em> and <em>clunk</em> and <em>glue</em> for another day. On a more positive note, it could be argued that I have already composed an illustrative sentence for tomorrow's word of the day, <em>mop</em>. Perhaps I can substitute <em>nap</em> for <em>mop</em>, tomorrow. Wait and see.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
