<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Chasm Of Vases</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-14635">Chasm Of Vases</h1>
  <p class="noindent">The usual pronunciation of <em>vase</em>, in this country, is as a rhyme with <em>mars</em>. In the United States, it is more common for <em>vase</em> to rhyme with <em>lace</em>. Growing up on an Essex council estate with a Belgian mother whose native tongue was Flemish, however, I learned to rhyme <em>vase</em> with <em>jaws</em>.</p>
  <p>This was but one example of my mother's idiosyncratic English. She spoke of the old films we loved to watch as being “in white and black”, and regularly deployed a sort of guttural expostulation my sister still refers to as “the Flemish sound”. This was used to express a vast swathe of emotions, from surprise to incredulity to contempt to disgust to … well, pretty much any response.</p>
  <p>The word <em>chasm</em> is one that we probably encounter more in written than spoken English. My mother pronounced it with a soft <em>ch</em>, as in <em>chase</em> or <em>chicken</em>. So I did too, on the rare occasions I said it aloud. I only learned the correct, hard <em>c</em> pronunciation in my late teens, when I was reading a passage aloud in an English class at school and my teacher raised an amused eyebrow. He gently corrected me when I finished reading.</p>
  <p>Many years have passed, but I still find myself drawn inexorably to the pronunciations I learned at my mother's knee. And, intriguingly, my sister finds herself increasingly using “the Flemish sound” as she grows older.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/14635">[2016-03-06]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
