<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Summa Theologica</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-14667">Summa Theologica</h1>
  <p>Things have been quiet here for a while. That is because I have been concentrating on completing my masterwork, the <em>Summa Theologica</em>. As its title indicates, this is a theological summary which attempts to explain the ways of God to Man—or at least to my readership. It has involved untold research, over many years, the collection of thousands, if not millions, of notes, all written painstakingly in pencil on Nabokovian index cards. Now at last I have set about the task of marshalling all this into a coherent narrative that is at once jaw-droppingly erudite and also as readable as any airport bookstall blockbuster.</p>
  <p>The opening sentence is, in a sense, the summa theologica of the <em>Summa Theologica</em>. Having consulted my notes, I wrote:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>It is blindingly obvious, to even the most dim-witted and wet-behind-the-ears six-year-old, that there is only one god, all-powerful and all-knowing, and that is the hideous bat-god Fatso.</p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>Unfortunately, after writing this, I reached an impasse. It is, indeed, blindingly obvious, so what else is there to say? The simple truth is that we must all bow down or, better, prostrate ourselves upon our bellies, like the creatures that creep upon the earth, before the terrible countenance of the hideous bat-god Fatso, for ever and ever Amen. If you do not grasp that fact, then you are doomed, yea unto the umpteenth generation, and you will eat nought but nettles and drink nothing but evaporated milk flavoured with the bitter tears of grumpy German film directors, and you will be dressed in rags, and the rags will be besmirched with the blood of slaughtered innocents, and your limbs will flail helplessly, and your brain will boil.</p>
  <p>If you require further evidence of the unflinchingly brutal reality of the hideous bat-god Fatso, see <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/?s=hideous+bat+god+Fatso" class="hootingyard">here</a></strong>.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
