<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>181 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15051">181 Pamphlets (Out Of Print)</h1>
  <p class="noindent">From his banishment in a pompous land, Hooting Yard devotee Mike Jennings keeps tabs on the out of print pamphleteer Dobson. Specifically, Mr Jennings acts as Dobson's bibliographer, maintaining a catalogue of all known pamphlets, and adding to the list whenever previously overlooked titles come to his attention in these pages.</p>
  <p>Here is his latest update. You can find links to all the earlier lists, comprising pamphlets numbered 1 to 168, <strong><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/12224">here</a></strong>. Please note that, like the previous 168, all the pamphlets listed below are out of print.</p>
  <p>169. A Magisterial Exegesis Of My Resounding Failure As A Novelist, With A Surfeit Of Adjectives And A Ham-fisted Watercolour Plate Of Ida Lupino.</p>
  <p>170. Parp. Toot, Hooter, Tooters, Parpers And Tots&nbsp;: A Complete Guide For The Bewildered.</p>
  <p>171. Several Potentates Of The Ancient World With Collapsed Lungs &amp; Their Concubines.</p>
  <p>172. How To Make Your Own Packet Of Half A Dozen Smokers’ Poptarts For Tuppence-Ha'penny.</p>
  <p>173. A Comparative Study Of Speckles And Splodges And Smudges.</p>
  <p>174. Half A Dozen Reasons Why Birds Sometimes Become Encrusted With Filth.</p>
  <p>175. Everything You Ought To Know About Hay, And Words Beginning With Hay-.</p>
  <p>176. Several Anagrams Of OO NOOKY, Informed By My Unique Insight Into Popular Culture</p>
  <p>177. Dictionary Of Fruit- And Nut-Related Jazz And Blues Nomenclature</p>
  <p>178. Fortune-Telling By Interpreting The Patterns Created By Crockery Smithereens Smashed According To The Dusty Springfield Method.</p>
  <p>179. Breakfast Favourites Of The Austrian Empire Foreign Ministry 1809–1821.</p>
  <p>180. Arithmetic For The Blind.</p>
  <p>181. Marmalade&nbsp;: Does It Come In A Jar Or A Pot?</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/15051">[2016-12-22]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
