<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Forty Thieves</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15596">The Forty Thieves</h1>
  <p>I was at a loose end, staring out of the window looking at crows, and my mind turned to Ali Baba and his Forty Thieves. With a start, I realised how little I knew about them. As luck would have it, the very next day at a rummage sale I picked up a copy of a privately-printed pamphlet by Knud Padde, described on the title page as a Lecturer in Arabian Thievery Studies at the University of Ack-on-the-Vug, or possibly the University of Vug-on-the-Ack. Here is his list of the Forty Thieves, together with “preliminary notes” on each thief.</p>
  <p>Corky—a hireling thief, a chump, a talc-powdered wastrel.</p>
  <p>Mutcho—greasy, vindictive, base.</p>
  <p>Ibster—looms terrible in dreams, licks ice cream cones.</p>
  <p>Guff—the boffin of the gang, and sniper, and Tippi Hedren's penpal,</p>
  <p>Spoors—great galumphing fool, Oppidan, thimble-fumbler.</p>
  <p>Waxy—waxy.</p>
  <p>Geraldo—of monstrous girth, of lively demeanour, of hand-stitched tunics.</p>
  <p>Carsten—polishes off raisins, swigs tap water, goes shod in clogs.</p>
  <p>Fang—inhabits palatial apartments with his wolf and his minuets.</p>
  <p>Sudbury—exists on a higher plane, thumps things, distressed.</p>
  <p>Oswin—suffers fools gladly, hung out to dry.</p>
  <p>Bantock—dustpan and brush man, Hotspur, clackety rhythm.</p>
  <p>Mort—hedger, was a water-bailiff, albino.</p>
  <p>Chippy—wanting eggs.</p>
  <p>Hardcastle—fevered brow, distorted spine, curly ringlets.</p>
  <p>Aptod—when first he flew he blundered into branches of dark trees.</p>
  <p>Shopworn—lacks the common touch, hoist by petards, a darling.</p>
  <p>Urbane—urbane yet ditzy, polka-dotted, ruminant.</p>
  <p>Dobbin—pumped gas back in Montana, unbridled savagery, lacks depth.</p>
  <p>Inky—several contradictory reports, buff-coloured envelope, chalk dust.</p>
  <p>Hig—shallow, potted, wet.</p>
  <p>Anglepoise—Jesuit upbringing, weather station, tarred with broad brush.</p>
  <p>Snapper—bolt upright, sprained ankles, Maoist.</p>
  <p>Boomer—booming voice, bloody nose, best before dusk.</p>
  <p>Chepstow—owls nest in his hair, he plays the piccolo, he eats mashed potato.</p>
  <p>Zigzoo—champs at bits, stinks of Jarlsberger, often with conifers.</p>
  <p>Delmore—lurid, spiteful, mechanical.</p>
  <p>Esher—flabby, subject to fits, member of Tuesday Weld Fan Club.</p>
  <p>Jetboy—likely to be found upon rotating things in park playgrounds.</p>
  <p>Casement—proudly lumpen, secretly engaged to a flapper, podcaster.</p>
  <p>Uck—abnormal alignment of head upon neck, neck grubby, hair unwashed.</p>
  <p>Fig—a stone's throw from the sea, green about the gills, hot to trot.</p>
  <p>Straubenzee—sings the songs his mother taught him in that Darmstadt nursery.</p>
  <p>Fogbound—clatters to and fro, goes haywire, made of cement.</p>
  <p>Wailywaily—hidden behind shutters, brilliantine in his hair, indiscreet.</p>
  <p>Burgess—over by the ice rink, underneath the arches, powered by batteries.</p>
  <p>Mudguard—guards mud.</p>
  <p>Pepinstow—thunderous hooves, brilliant plumage, exquisite table manners.</p>
  <p>Dixon—marimba, clutching at straws, gin slings and blood oranges.</p>
  <p>Quangocrat—double helpings of sausage-shaped dough snacks.</p>
  <p><em>This is a slightly revised version of a piece which originally appeared in 2011.</em></p>
  
</body>
</html>
