<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Three ‘K's</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15498">The Three ‘K's</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Yesterday I received an annoying email from a company—probably run by teenagers—called SOS.</p>
  <p><em>Hi Frank!,</em> it began, overfamiliarly. I don't know why I continued reading after such effrontery, but I did.</p>
  <p><em>Here at SOS we're passionate about helping you maximise traffic to your website. SOS stands for Search Optimisation Solutions, and that's exactly what we do!</em></p>
  <p>Like a fool, I carried on reading. I suppose I was won over by the thought that I could attract more than thirty-four readers. I became even more interested when SOS gave me one of their so-called “simple yet effective” tips without my having to pay them a penny.</p>
  <p><em>Our research shows that web traffic increases a millionfold if you mention three names on your site. We call them The Three Ks—Kate, Kim, and Keith. That is, Kate Middleton, Kim Kardashian, and Keith Potger.</em></p>
  <p>I am now racking my brains trying to work out how to concoct a story which includes the Duchess of Cambridge, the inexplicable celebrity, and a quarter of Antipodean 1960s pop sensations The Seekers, which is at once (a) credible, (b) morally uplifting, and (c) groovy. If any of the thirty-four of you have any ideas, please let me know in the Comments.</p>
  <p><strong>UPDATE</strong> : Gosh! Since I posted the above, an hour ago, traffic to Hooting Yard has increased to a whopping thirty-six! Thanks a million, SOS!</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/15498">[2017-08-02]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
