<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lars And Maud</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2018-02-15T12:03:32" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15928">Lars And Maud</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Lars and Maud went up the hill to fetch a pail of water.<br />
  Lars fell down and clonked his crown and Maud came tumbling after.<br />
  They rolled and tumbled further down, tumbling pell mell,<br />
  ‘Til they came bumping to a halt down in the dingly dell.<br />
  In the dell lurked the Grunty Man, who carried them off to his cave.<br />
  But fear not, tinies! For Lars was bold and Maud was very brave.<br />
  They shook their little fists and bawled and rent the sky asunder,<br />
  And made the Grunty Man commit a very foolish blunder.<br />
  He dropped them at the cave-mouth while he went to have a fight,<br />
  An illegal boxing match under the cover of the night.<br />
  The Grunty Man was pitted ‘gainst an awful, dreadful foe –<br />
  None other than Miss Peep, affectionately known as “Little Bo”.<br />
  She looked so pale and timorous, yet she packed a hefty punch,<br />
  And often bashed a dozen ogres before she had her lunch.<br />
  So when the Grunty Man stalked off to meet his Nemesis,<br />
  Lars and Maud ran off into the arms of Alger Hiss.<br />
  Yes, Alger Hiss, the communist spy from Washington DC!<br />
  Urbane and droll and stylish, dressed up to a T.<br />
  He took the tots to a meeting of his fellow-travelling Reds,<br />
  Where Stalinist propaganda turned their pointy little heads.<br />
  They went back to the cave and found the Grunty Man covered in gore.<br />
  Little Bo Peep had bashed him up, then bashed him up some more.<br />
  They recruited him to their cause, to overthrow the state.<br />
  Said Lars (or Maud) “We must act before it is too late!”<br />
  So Lars and Maud and the Grunty Man went back to the dingly dell,<br />
  And hid some microfilmed secrets at the bottom of the well.<br />
  But they were caught by Nixon, indefatigable in his zest<br />
  To place as many Reds as possible under house arrest.<br />
  He confined them to a house atop the hill they climbed for water,<br />
  A solid and a sturdy house well built from bricks and mortar,<br />
  Like the house of the three little pigs that withstood lupine huff and puff.<br />
  But Lars and Maud and the Grunty Man were Communists, sure enough.<br />
  So when the big bad wolf hove into view from o'er the hills,<br />
  They sang in praise of Stalin and then swallowed their cyanide pills.<br />
  And so the state was safe once more from Communist infiltration,<br />
  And Nixon was bathed in the praise of a relieved and grateful nation.<br />
  The Grunty Man and Lars and Maud were buried and forgot.<br />
  But Richard Milhous Nixon—he is not.</p>
  <p><em>Originally posted in 2011.</em></p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/15928">[2017-11-21]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
