<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Prolix Pirates</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15225">The Prolix Pirates</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Shiver me timbers!</p>
  <p>Shiver = quake with cold or fear.</p>
  <p>Me = the being that is my self.</p>
  <p>Timbers = planks of wood cut to shape from trees.</p>
  <p>Thus the prolix pirate would shout “Quake with cold and fear the being that is myself planks of wood cut to shape from trees!”</p>
  <p>But the prolix pirate was what is known, in the technical jargon, as an <em>unlettered matelot</em>, and so his prolixity was improvised, off the top of his head. His shipmate, the even more prolix pirate, was armed with a battered old copy of the <em>Oxford English Dictionary</em>. He would shout “Tremble, shake, quiver; esp. to tremble with cold or fear the objective case of the first person pronoun I reproducing the Old English accusative and dative wood used for the building of houses, ships, etc., or for the use of the carpenter, joiner, or other artisan; wood in general as a material; esp. after it has been suitably trimmed and squared into logs, or further adapted to constructive uses!”</p>
  <p>You can follow the adventures of the prolix pirates every week in the children's comic <em>The Ipsy Dipsy Doo (Prolix Edition),</em> available from all good dealers in newspapers and periodicals, esp. the owners of shops where these are sold; (now also) the shop itself, usually also selling tobacco, confectionery, etc.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
