<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lint</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15841">Lint</h1>
  <p><em>Once upon a time Dobson decided to write a pamphlet on the subject of lint.</em></p>
  <p>Thus begins Ted Cack's mammoth new book <em>The Lint Pamphlet&nbsp;: An Enduring Mystery</em>. It is the latest in a series of mammoth books, each one devoted to a single work by Dobson, including those which the twentieth century's titanic pamphleteer abandoned, or planned but never wrote, or were mere fugitive throbs within his cranium.</p>
  <p>“By the time my work is done”, announced Ted Cack at a press conference held at the end of a dilapidated seaside pier, buffeted by squalls, earlier this week, “The number of words I will have devoted to Dobson's works will dwarf the number of words in all those works put together, however you add them up.”</p>
  <p>Quite what he meant by this last phrase is unclear, as there is only one way to add things up, as most of us understand the process. Granted, we are not all students of advanced mathematics, but then nor is Ted Cack. His profile on the online network MyBoast lists several qualifications from several dubious or unimportant institutions, most of which appear to be in frankly absurd fields such as Hermeneutic Ornithology or Unapplied Faffing.</p>
  <p>As a Dobsonist, however, Ted Cack is peerless. Once the hot-headed <em>enfant terrible</em> of Dobson studies, as the years have passed his head has become far less hot. Indeed, last time its temperature was measured, his head proved to be so cold various medics pronounced him clinically dead. Ted Cack shocked them all by springing up from his head-temperatutre-measuring-bed, cutting two or three capers around the room à la James Boswell of a morning, dancing either a quadrille or a gavotte depending from what angle you viewed it, and singing, with unnerving boisterousness, the chorus from “More Than A Feeling” by Boston (Scholz, 1976).</p>
  <p>I'm afraid I must interrupt this riveting narrative. The console is beeping with an incoming query. Let me decode it.</p>
  <p><em>Q—If Ted Cack is peerless, how do you explain his press conference taking place on a pier, albeit a dilapidated one?</em></p>
  <p>The question is more sensible than it seems, much, much more sensible, so sensible it takes my breath away (Moroder/Whitlock, 1986; performed by Berlin. Berlin ought not be confused with Irving Berlin. The former was an American New Wave band formed in Orange County, home of Richard M. Nixon, in 1979. The latter, born Israel Beilin, wrote the kinds of songs which would knock anything written by the band into a cocked hat.)</p>
  <p>My breath having been taken away, I am unable to answer the question right now, but can only pant and wheeze as I struggle to remain conscious. You may be familiar with such a struggle, for example when listening to <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em>, broadcasts of which have been known to lull even the most alert listeners into a deep and profound sleep, or at least a catnap.</p>
  <p>I should point out here that enquiries, such as the one about peerless Ted Cack on a pier, are always welcome, even if I do not always—oh, wait, here is another one beeping on the console already!</p>
  <p><em>Q—I could not help noticing that you have mentioned two pop music combos today, both of which take their names from cities beginning with the letter B, that is, Boston and Berlin. Are there any other groups with similar nomenclature, for example Bridlington, Basingstoke, Biggleswade, Bognor Regis, Broadstairs, Budleigh Salterton, or Bungay, to list only a few towns in England?</em></p>
  <p>If anything, this is an even more sensible question, and one I would be prepared to answer here and now were my knowledge of pop music combos more exhaustive than it is, but for heaven's sake, I'm meant to be talking about lint!</p>
  <p>“Perhaps the most startling revelation of my mammoth new book”, said Ted Cack at that press conference held at the end of a dilapidated seaside pier, buffeted by squalls, earlier this week, “is that Dobson seemed to be wholly ignorant about his proposed subject matter.”</p>
  <p>This is not half as startling as Ted Cack thinks it is. It was the out of print pamphleteer's common practice to write endless screeds on topics of which he knew nothing whatsoever. The word for this is perpilocution, and Dobson was a master of it. Sometimes he liked to pretend he was following the dictum that the best way to learn about something is to write a book about it, but this is rather belied by the resulting out of print pamphlets, which rarely tell us much about anything except the baffling innards of the author's brain.</p>
  <p>Startling or not, however, Ted Cack paints a compelling picture of Dobson and Marigold Chew at breakfast on the morning when the lint spark was lit. The couple were tucking into bowls of reconstituted partridge livers in a mustard ‘n’ milk of magnesia <em>froideur&nbsp;</em>when the pamphleteer suddenly banged his spoon against his forehead and burst into unnervingly boisterous song.</p>
  <p>“I want to know what lint is. I want you to show me, Marigold my sweet. I want to feel what lint is. I know you can show me.””</p>
  <p>He sang to the tune of “I Want To Know What Love Is” (Jones, 1984; performed by Foreigner. Interestingly, all the members of the group actually were foreigners, except for those periods when they were present in their home countries.)</p>
  <p>“I think you had better write a pamphlet on the subject, Dobson”, said Marigold Chew.</p>
  <p>The “enduring mystery” of Ted Cack's subtitle is that Dobson never did.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
