<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Christmas At Hooting Yard</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2018-02-15T12:03:32" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-16177">Christmas At Hooting Yard</h1>
  <p>Tomorrow at the crack of dawn I shall be heading off to a foreign land, where I shall prance about like a fool until New Year's Eve Eve. But fear not! You lot will not be left bereft and weeping, tormented by a Hooting Yard-shaped hole in your souls. Through the [something or other] of technology, daily potsages [sic] will be appearing here, even as your favourite impecunious scribbler is thousands of miles away from his escritoire.</p>
  <p>Not only will our Advent Calendar continue to tock towards Christmas every morning, but from Thursday until 30 December you will be treated to Ten Tarleton Tales, one for each day. These are reposts rather than new stories, but they take on a fresh—and possibly alarming—significance when bundled together as a sort of box set.</p>
  <p>Meanwhile, nearly all surviving episodes of <em>Hooting Yard On The Air</em> from 2004 are now available on <a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZWRkgZ7yMk_MqGzFco1sEA" class="external"><strong>YouTube</strong></a>, or you can go to <a href="https://www.mixcloud.com/Resonance/playlists/hooting-yard/" class="external"><strong>Mixcloud</strong></a> for an archive of more recent shows.</p>
  <p>Taken together, all of that should keep you lot occupied until I return. And though all of this bounty is offered freely, it might well be that you feel compelled to offer up a prayer of gratitude, invoking the twisted spine of St Spivack, and chucking oodles of cash into Mr Key's <a href="https://www.paypal.com/webapps/shoppingcart?flowlogging_id=632903816a6bb&amp;mfid=1513634308222_632903816a6bb#/checkout/openButton" class="external"><strong>Paypal</strong></a> coffers.</p>
  <p>A very happy Christmas to you all, and may the Lord have mercy on your souls.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
