<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Good Housekeeping</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-16053">Good Housekeeping</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I am attempting to do a spot of Hooting Yard housekeeping, delving into the terrifying innards of WordPress to tweak this website here &amp; there. Frankly, I find my brain befuddled, but progress is being made, albeit slowly.</p>
  <p>Thus far, I have managed to make a couple of updates to the sidebar. A while ago, ResonanceFM discontinued its podcasts and, as far as I know, erased them from history. I haven't worked out how to remove the podcasty links over to your right, but I have inserted a link to the Hooting Yard audio archive on Mixcloud. Shows are available there almost as soon as they have been broadcast.</p>
  <p>I recently trod in the puddle of Instagram, and have added a sidebar link so you lot can go and look at pictures posted by out_of_print_pamphleteer.</p>
  <p>I shall keep you informed of further refinements if my brain doers not overheat in the meantime.</p>
  <p><strong>UPDATE&nbsp;:</strong> I've also inserted a sidebar Archives section, where you can browse through the morass of potsages [sic] month by month.</p>
  <p><strong>FURTHER UPDATE&nbsp;:</strong> Those podcast links have now been excised. See the Comments, however, for Old Resonance Hooting Yard Podcasts News, and watch this space …</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/16053">[2017-12-08]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
