<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Eye Jab Day</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15341">Eye Jab Day</h1>
  <p class="noindent">This afternoon I shall be undergoing what seems like the umpteenth <em>injection of a needle directly into my eyeball</em>. It occurs to me that at some point I ought to write an account of what goes on at Tuesday Injection Club, introducing you lot to some of the characters I encounter, the doctors, nurses, and ancillary staff and the other patients. I can also attempt to answer some of the burning questions that are raised, such as <em>why do I never get offered a cup of tea?</em> and <em>who is that mad woman who marches to and fro brandishing a clipboard but never actually speaks to anyone?</em></p>
  <p>I shall be interested to discover if, this week, I experience the Black Spot. Sometimes, after an injection, I have a Black Spot in my eye for a day or two, and sometimes not. The first time this happened it was mightily disconcerting. Now I treat it with airy familiarity, and imagine it as something that might have inspired a tale by J Sheridan Le Fanu.</p>
  <p>My more devoted readers will no doubt be asking <em>but Mr Key can you actually see any better?</em> to which the answer is, <em>no, not yet, I am still perceiving the world through a blur of hazy mist or a haze of misty blur</em>.</p>
  <p>Onwards to jab time!</p>
  
</body>
</html>
