<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Drama</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2017-11-05T14:41:33" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-15281">Drama</h1>
  <p><strong>Exterior, the gate of the Wasp Zoo.</strong></p>
  <p>S<em>entry At The Gate Of The Wasp Zoo</em>&nbsp;: Halt! Who goes there?</p>
  <p><em>Voice Offstage</em>&nbsp;: I am Perkins, Bringer Of Mothballs.</p>
  <p><em>Sentry At The Gate Of The Wasp Zoo</em>&nbsp;: You may pass.</p>
  <p><strong>Enter Perkins, Bringer Of Mothballs. He is dressed in cardboard boxes save for his hat, which is made of birds.</strong></p>
  <p><em>Perkins, Bringer Of Mothballs</em>&nbsp;: Have you heard the news from Chappaquiddick?</p>
  <p><em>Sentry At The Gate Of The Wasp Zoo</em>&nbsp;: Yes. Poor Mary Jo Kopechne.</p>
  <p><em>Perkins, Bringer Of Mothballs</em>&nbsp;: This is a very bijou wasp zoo.</p>
  <p><em>Sentry At The Gate Of The Wasp Zoo</em>&nbsp;: It is. But now I have no further words, and nor do you, for there is a fatal flaw in this little drama, viz. its incoherence. Now we must simply stand here on stage, silently, for several hours, until such time as your hat-birds fly, fly away.</p>
  <p><em>Perkins, Bringer Of Mothballs</em>&nbsp;: But they are not living birds. They are stone dead and taxidermised.</p>
  <p><em>Sentry At The Gate Of The Wasp Zoo</em>&nbsp;: Did you not hear what I said? Hush ye! Hush ye!</p>
  <p><strong>S</strong><strong>e</strong><strong>veral hours pass, until the audience bursts into thunderous applause.</strong></p>
  
</body>
</html>
