<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Tremendous Gert</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-23T22:08:13" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>The Tremendous Gert</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Readers may recall my essay about <a href="2017-08-26-the-world-famous-food-splattered-jesuit.xhtml" class="internal" title="The World-Famous Food-Splattered Jesuit"><strong>the world-famous food-splattered Jesuit.</strong></a> I imagined a music hall act of “sheer simplicity. The curtains would open and there, on stage, world-famous and splattered with food, stood a Jesuit. He would extend his arms, almost in crucifixion pose, and gaze at a point slightly above the heads of the audience. There were no frills, no ‘business' with props. After a few minutes, the curtains would close, and—barring the inevitable encore—that was that.”</p>
  <p>It has now come to my attention that, as so often, the real world anticipated the supposedly wacky world of Hooting Yard, and by many decades. Via <a href="https://strangeflowers.wordpress.com/2018/03/16/the-lonely-death-of-valeska-gert/" class="external"><strong><em>Strange Flowers</em></strong></a>, I learned today of Weimar cabaret artist Valeska Gert. “In the 1920s, Gert premiered one of her most provocative works entitled <em>Pause</em>. Performed in between reels at Berlin cinemas, it was intended to draw attention to inactivity, silence, serenity, and stillness amidst all the movement and chaos in modern life. She came onstage and literally just stood there. ‘It was so radical just to go on stage in the cinema and stand there and do nothing,’ said Wolfgang Mueller.”</p>
  <p>Here she is in more animated mode:</p>
  
</body>
</html>
