<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Advocates</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-05T10:35:55" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-16427">Advocates</h1>
  <p class="noindent">I was not at all certain whether I had any advocates, I could not find out anything definite about it, every face was unfriendly, most people who came toward me and whom I kept meeting in the corridors looked like fat old women; they had huge blue-and-white striped aprons covering their entire bodies, kept stroking their stomachs and swaying awkwardly to and fro. I had been told that at least three advocates would be assigned to represent me, but if so, where were they? And could the case proceed without them?</p>
  <p>I wondered if I had somehow come to the wrong building. Perhaps this was not the law courts, but some other branch of some other institution of some other regime in some other country on some other continent. After all, there was a blank period of several hours, between my waking up on my pallet of straw in the barn annexe and my arrival here, several hours of which I could remember nothing save for the plaintive cry of a curlew, and a smashed saucer on the linoleum.</p>
  <p>Dizzy in the head, I sat down on a bench and lit my pipe. People continued to mince and waddle along the corridor, seemingly with purpose. None of them spared me a glance. None of them announced themselves as my advocate. Perhaps I was in the right building but on the wrong floor? I had noticed, as I entered from the street, that the building was impossibly tall. The top of it was invisible, engulfed by clouds.</p>
  <p>Puffing on my pipe ought to have calmed my nerves, but, like poor Neddie in <em>Brand Upon The Brain!</em> (Guy Maddin, 2006), I was a bundle of tics. The case—if it were ever heard and judged upon—could spell my ruin. I had been accused of plagiarism by the publishers of the weekly children's comic <em>The Hammer Of Christ</em>. Among the most popular strips in that penny woeful was that recounting the adventures of Buster and Radbod. I was deemed to have stolen these characters when I began to issue my own weekly children's comic, <em>Buster And Radbod</em>. It was true that, in all particulars, my Buster was identical to the original Buster, my Radbod to the original Radbod, and that some—well, all—of the adventures I related in my comic differed not a jot from adventures pursued by Buster and Radbod in <em>The Hammer Of Christ</em>. But apart from those wildly improbable coincidences—and is it not a feature of coincidences that they are wild and improbable?—there really was no comparison. The paper-size and pagination of the comics was different, my drawings were somewhat cack-handed, and the sale price of my publication was four times the price of the dreadful rag I was accused of copying.</p>
  <p>In spite of this, and of my protestations of innocence, I had been summoned to the court to face the full wrath of the law. But how could I marshal a defence without my promised advocates? Slumped on the bench, it dawned on me that my predicament was not dissimilar to a situation faced by Buster and Radbod in one of their adventures, which had appeared in <em>The Hammer Of Christ</em> Vol. XLIV No. 8 and, coincidentally, in <em>Buster And Radbod</em> Vol. I No. 1.</p>
  <p>What happened was that the frolicsome duo were summoned to the law court, an impossibly tall building, the top of which vanished in the clouds. They had to answer a charge brought against them, the essence of which was that they were false replicas, or doppelgangers, of the purported real Buster and real Radbod. It is a stupendously exciting and suspenseful story, as the pair roam the corridors on the many many floors of the building, knowing that at any moment they may come face to face with … <em>themselves</em>! Particularly enthralling—and psychologically complex for a children's comic strip—is Buster and Radbod's growing realisation that they may not be real, may be simply fictional two-dimensional simulacra. Complexity piles on paradox because, of course, neither Buster nor Radbod is real—they are comic strip characters. But so are the so-called <em>real</em> Buster and Radbod they will encounter, at some point in the story in the building in a corridor on a floor.</p>
  <p>Somehow these reflections made my own situation less fraught. I tapped out my pipe, rose from the bench, and went in search of my advocates. It seemed to me now that I would be able to spot them easily among the teeming throng. They would look identical to me! All three of them! I hunted them along all the corridors on the floor, and then I tried the other corridors on the other floors, one by one. But before I found my advocates, I noticed a curious thing about the many steep and crowded staircases in this building. As long as you don't stop climbing, the stairs won't end, under your climbing feet they will go on growing upwards.</p>
  <p><em>The first sentence, and the last, were translated from the German by Tania and James Stern. Everything in between was not.</em></p>
  
</body>
</html>
