<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Return Of Hooting Yard</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-04T21:02:50" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-16840">The Return Of Hooting Yard</h1>
  <p class="noindent">Midway through our thrilling milk-based calendar, back in December, the Hooting Yard website went kaput. Boffins worked tirelessly to repair whatever damage had wrecked the innards, and I think it is now germ-free at last.</p>
  <p>Unfortunately, at around the same time, Mr Key himself went kaput. There was general physical debility, catastrophic problems with my eyesight—still pitiable in spite of ongoing injections of a needle directly into my eyeballs—and, I am afraid to say, a brain which came to resemble an empty vacant void or vacuum, in which nothing stirred.</p>
  <p>In the meantime, I celebrated my sixtieth birthday. I cannot simply sprawl around peering vaguely at misty shimmerings and dribbling into a tin cup. No! I must crack away at that damned keyboard again, however slowly and fitfully, and try to unleash further sweeping paragraphs of majestic prose!</p>
  <p>It's all a bit of a palaver, with ludicrously magnified screens and hit-and-miss typing—not to mention a compulsive desire to take a long snooze – but I shall do my best to revivify your favourite website.</p>
  <p class="postwebpage"><a href="http://hootingyard.org/archives/16840">[2019-04-23]</a></p>
</body>
</html>
