<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Reading</title>
  <meta name="author" content="Frank Key" />
  <meta name="description" content="Indiscriminately collected prose works by Frank Key." />
  <meta name="language" content="en-GB" />
  <meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil" />
  <meta name="date" content="2020-12-04T21:02:50" />
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1 id="post-16844">Reading</h1>
  <p>One consequence of my hopeless eyesight is that, over the past couple of years, reading has become somewhat difficult. Even armed with industrial-strength magnifying spectacles, issued by my eye doctors, it is a strain to read standard size type.</p>
  <p>I have always loved books as physical objects, and eschewed their digital, electronic counterparts. But having been given a Kindle Fire tablet as a birthday gift, I have become—of necessity—a convert to the e-book. I can read again, voraciously, without having to peer like a little mole.</p>
  <p>Thus, in the last few months, I've been splurging, my reading life as demented and enthusiastic as ever it was. I've reread Beckett (<em>Molloy</em>) and Kafka (<em>Americ</em>a), Henry Fielding and Mickey Spillane, read Theodore Dalrymple's marvellous book on litter (<em>Litter&nbsp;: The Remains Of Our Culture</em>), Melanie Phillips' memoir <em>Guardian Angel</em>, Francis Iles, Derek Raymond, and James Hadley Chase, H P Lovecaft, William Hazlitt, and Sir Thomas Browne, and am currently bingeing on Georges Simenon. What a wonder he is.</p>
  
</body>
</html>
