<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Mr Key's Prefatory Remarks</title>
<meta name="author" content="Frank Key"/>
<meta name="description" content="The Perpilocutions of Frank Key."/>
<meta name="language" content="en-GB"/>
<meta name="generator" content="Scrawled in GreasePencil"/>
<meta name="date" content="2014-11-20T20:33:45" />
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

  <h1>Mr Key's Prefatory Remarks</h1>

<p class="noindent">Most of the learned essays in this book were written in the latter half of 2012, a year in which I determined–and very nearly managed—to post a piece of around a thousand words every day on your favourite website, Hooting Yard. Essays from the first half of the year have previously been collected as <em>Brute Beauty And Valour And Act, Oh Air, Pride, Plume, Here Buckle!</em>, to which this is therefore a companion volume. I have also taken the opportunity to append the seven surviving chapters of an abandoned work, <em>Mr Key's Book Of Birds</em>. These pieces were written in the spring of 2014.</p>

<p>The original title of this collection was <em>Attack Of The Jellyfish Monsters From Planet Googie Withers</em>. At the last minute, however, I changed it to <em>The Funny Mountain</em>, a title originally given to a fictional work of fiction imagined by the late Vivian Darkbloom in 1941.</p>

<p>In addition to Mr Darkbloom I would like to thank all the usual suspects, particularly Glyn Webster and Ruthie Bosch, whose contributions are noted on the copyright page. Incidentally, to find out who all the usual suspects are, may I suggest you buy copies of the seven other Hooting Yard paperbacks available, as well as the definitive anthology <em>By Aerostat To Hooting Yard&nbsp;:&nbsp;A Frank Key Reader?</em> The latter is published by Dabbler Editions as an ebook, selected and with an introduction by Roland Clare–to whom <em>The Funny Mountain</em> is dedicated, with many thanks.</p>

<div class="blockparagraphs">
<p>Frank Key<br/>
Reclusion's Barrel<br/>
December 2014</p>
</div>

</body>
</html>
